{
    "word": "Abstract",
    "definitions": [
        "Withdraw; separate.",
        "Considered apart from any application to a particular object; separated from matter; existing in the mind only; as, abstract truth, abstract numbers. Hence: ideal; abstruse; difficult.",
        "Expressing a particular property of an object viewed apart from the other properties which constitute it; -- opposed to concrete; as, honesty is an abstract word.",
        "Resulting from the mental faculty of abstraction; general as opposed to particular; as, abstract or general name.",
        "Abstracted; absent in mind.",
        "To withdraw; to separate; to take away.",
        "To draw off in respect to interest or attention; as, his was wholly abstracted by other objects.",
        "To separate, as ideas, by the operation of the mind; to consider by itself; to contemplate separately, as a quality or attribute.",
        "To epitomize; to abridge.",
        "To take secretly or dishonestly; to purloin; as, to abstract goods from a parcel, or money from a till.",
        "To separate, as the more volatile or soluble parts of a substance, by distillation or other chemical processes. In this sense extract is now more generally used.",
        "To perform the process of abstraction.",
        "A state of separation from other things; as, to consider a subject in the abstract, or apart from other associated things.",
        "An abstract term.",
        "A powdered solid extract of a vegetable substance mixed with lactose in such proportion that one part of the abstract represents two parts of the original substance."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The more abstract . . . we are from the body.",
        "A concrete name is a name which stands for a thing; an abstract name which stands for an attribute of a thing. A practice has grown up in more modern times, which, if not introduced by Locke, has gained currency from his example, of applying the expression abstract name J. S. Mill. [1913 Webster]",
        "He was incapable of forming any opinion or resolution abstracted from his own prejudices.",
        "The young stranger had been abstracted and silent.",
        "Von Rosen had quietly abstracted the bearing-reins from the harness.",
        "I own myself able to abstract in one sense.",
        "An abstract of every treatise he had read.",
        "Man, the abstract Of all perfection, which the workmanship Of Heaven hath modeled.",
        "The concretes abstracts"
    ],
    "etymology": "[L. abstractus, p. p. of abstrahere to draw from, separate; ab, abs + trahere to draw. See Trace.]"
}