{
    "word": "Act",
    "definitions": [
        "The result of public deliberation; the decision or determination of a legislative body, council, court of justice, etc.; a decree, edit, law, judgment, resolve, award; as, an act of Parliament, or of Congress.",
        "A formal solemn writing, expressing that something has been done.",
        "A performance of part of a play; one of the principal divisions of a play or dramatic work in which a certain definite part of the action is completed.",
        "A thesis maintained in public, in some English universities, by a candidate for a degree, or to show the proficiency of a student.",
        "A state of reality or real existence as opposed to a possibility or possible existence.",
        "Process of doing; action. In act, in the very doing; on the point of (doing).",
        "To move to action; to actuate; to animate.",
        "To perform; to execute; to do.",
        "To perform, as an actor; to represent dramatically on the stage.",
        "To assume the office or character of; to play; to personate; as, to act the hero.",
        "To feign or counterfeit; to simulate.",
        "To exert power; to produce an effect; as, the stomach acts upon food.",
        "To perform actions; to fulfill functions; to put forth energy; to move, as opposed to remaining at rest; to carry into effect a determination of the will.",
        "To behave or conduct, as in morals, private duties, or public offices; to bear or deport one's self; as, we know not why he has acted so.",
        "To perform on the stage; to represent a character."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "That best portion of a good man's life, His little, nameless, unremembered acts Of kindness and of love.",
        "The seeds of plants are not at first in act, but in possibility, what they afterward grow to be.",
        "This woman was taken . . . in the very act.",
        "Self-love, the spring of motion, acts the soul.",
        "That we act our temporal affairs with a desire no greater than our necessity.",
        "Industry doth beget by producing good habits, and facility of acting things expedient for us to do.",
        "Uplifted hands that at convenient times Could act extortion and the worst of crimes.",
        "With acted fear the villain thus pursued.",
        "He hangs between, in doubt to act or rest.",
        "To show the world how Garrick did not act."
    ],
    "etymology": "[L. actus, p. p. of agere to drive, lead, do; but influenced by E. act, n.]"
}