{
    "word": "Address",
    "definitions": [
        "To prepare or make ready.",
        "Reflexively: To prepare one's self; to apply one's skill or energies (to some object); to betake.",
        "To clothe or array; to dress.",
        "To direct, as words (to any one or any thing); to make, as a speech, petition, etc. (to any one, an audience).",
        "To direct speech to; to make a communication to, whether spoken or written; to apply to by words, as by a speech, petition, etc., to speak to; to accost.",
        "To direct in writing, as a letter; to superscribe, or to direct and transmit; as, he addressed a letter.",
        "To make suit to as a lover; to court; to woo.",
        "To consign or intrust to the care of another, as agent or factor; as, the ship was addressed to a merchant in Baltimore.",
        "To direct speech.",
        "Act of preparing one's self.",
        "Act of addressing one's self to a person; verbal application.",
        "A formal communication, either written or spoken; a discourse; a speech; a formal application to any one; a petition; a formal statement on some subject or special occasion; as, an address of thanks, an address to the voters.",
        "Direction or superscription of a letter, or the name, title, and place of residence of the person addressed.",
        "Manner of speaking to another; delivery; as, a man of pleasing or insinuating address.",
        "Attention in the way one's addresses to a lady.",
        "Skill; skillful management; dexterity; adroitness."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "And this good knight his way with me addrest.",
        "His foe was soon addressed.",
        "Turnus addressed his men to single fight.",
        "The five foolish virgins addressed themselves at the noise of the bridegroom's coming.",
        "These men addressed themselves to the task.",
        "Tecla . . . addressed herself in man's apparel.",
        "The young hero had addressed his players to him for his assistance.",
        "Are not your orders to address the senate?",
        "The representatives of the nation addressed the king.",
        "Young Turnus to the beauteous maid addrest."
    ],
    "etymology": "[Cf. F. adresse. See Address, v. t.]"
}