{
    "word": "Advance",
    "definitions": [
        "To raise; to elevate.",
        "To raise to a higher rank; to promote.",
        "To accelerate the growth or progress; to further; to forward; to help on; to aid; to heighten; as, to advance the ripening of fruit; to advance one's interests.",
        "To bring to view or notice; to offer or propose; to show; as, to advance an argument.",
        "To make earlier, as an event or date; to hasten.",
        "To furnish, as money or other value, before it becomes due, or in aid of an enterprise; to supply beforehand; as, a merchant advances money on a contract or on goods consigned to him.",
        "To raise to a higher point; to enhance; to raise in rate; as, to advance the price of goods.",
        "To extol; to laud.",
        "To move or go forward; to proceed; as, he advanced to greet me.",
        "To increase or make progress in any respect; as, to advance in knowledge, in stature, in years, in price.",
        "To rise in rank, office, or consequence; to be preferred or promoted.",
        "The act of advancing or moving forward or upward; progress.",
        "Improvement or progression, physically, mentally, morally, or socially; as, an advance in health, knowledge, or religion; an advance in rank or office.",
        "An addition to the price; rise in price or value; as, an advance on the prime cost of goods.",
        "The first step towards the attainment of a result; approach made to gain favor, to form an acquaintance, to adjust a difference, etc.; an overture; a tender; an offer; -- usually in the plural.",
        "A furnishing of something before an equivalent is received (as money or goods), towards a capital or stock, or on loan; payment beforehand; the money or goods thus furnished; money or value supplied beforehand."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "They . . . advanced their eyelids.",
        "Ahasueres . . . advanced him, and set his seat above all the princes.",
        "Some ne'er advance a judgment of their own.",
        "Greatly advancing his gay chivalry.",
        "Advanced to a level with ancient peers.",
        "[He] made the like advances to the dissenters.",
        "I shall, with pleasure, make the necessary advances.",
        "The account was made up with intent to show what advances had been made."
    ],
    "etymology": "[Cf. F. avance, fr. avancer. See Advance, v.]"
}