{
    "word": "Back",
    "definitions": [
        "A ferryboat. See Bac, 1.",
        "An extended upper part, as of a mountain or ridge.",
        "The outward or upper part of a thing, as opposed to the inner or lower part; as, the back of the hand, the back of the foot, the back of a hand rail.",
        "The part opposed to the front; the hinder or rear part of a thing; as, the back of a book; the back of an army; the back of a chimney.",
        "The part opposite to, or most remote from, that which fronts the speaker or actor; or the part out of sight, or not generally seen; as, the back of an island, of a hill, or of a village.",
        "The part of a cutting tool on the opposite side from its edge; as, the back of a knife, or of a saw.",
        "A support or resource in reserve.",
        "The keel and keelson of a ship.",
        "The upper part of a lode, or the roof of a horizontal underground passage.",
        "A garment for the back; hence, clothing.",
        "Being at the back or in the rear; distant; remote; as, the back door; back settlements.",
        "Being in arrear; overdue; as, back rent.",
        "Moving or operating backward; as, back action.",
        "To get upon the back of; to mount.",
        "To place or seat upon the back.",
        "To drive or force backward; to cause to retreat or recede; as, to back oxen.",
        "To make a back for; to furnish with a back; as, to back books.",
        "To adjoin behind; to be at the back of.",
        "To write upon the back of; as, to back a letter; to indorse; as, to back a note or legal document.",
        "To support; to maintain; to second or strengthen by aid or influence; as, to back a friend.",
        "To bet on the success of; -- as, to back a race horse.",
        "To move or go backward; as, the horse refuses to back.",
        "To change from one quarter to another by a course opposite to that of the sun; -- used of the wind.",
        "To stand still behind another dog which has pointed; -- said of a dog.",
        "In, to, or toward, the rear; as, to stand back; to step back.",
        "To the place from which one came; to the place or person from which something is taken or derived; as, to go back for something left behind; to go back to one's native place; to put a book back after reading it.",
        "To a former state, condition, or station; as, to go back to private life; to go back to barbarism.",
        "(Of time) In times past; ago.",
        "Away from contact; by reverse movement.",
        "In concealment or reserve; in one's own possession; as, to keep back the truth; to keep back part of the money due to another.",
        "In a state of restraint or hindrance.",
        "In return, repayment, or requital.",
        "In withdrawal from a statement, promise, or undertaking; as, he took back the offensive words.",
        "In arrear; as, to be back in one's rent."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "[The mountains] their broad bare backs upheave Into the clouds.",
        "Methought Love pitying me, when he saw this, Gave me your hands, the backs and palms to kiss.",
        "This project Should have a back or second, that might hold, If this should blast in proof.",
        "A bak to walken inne by daylight.",
        "I will back him [a horse] straight.",
        "Great Jupiter, upon his eagle backed, Appeared to me.",
        "A garden . . . with a vineyard backed.",
        "The chalk cliffs which back the beach.",
        "Have still found it necessary to back and fortify their laws with rewards and punishments.",
        "The mate backed the captain manfully.",
        "Cleon at first . . . was willing to go; but, finding that he [Nicias] was in earnest, he tried to back out.",
        "The angel of the Lord . . . came, and rolled back the stone from the door.",
        "The Lord hath kept thee back from honor.",
        "What have I to give you back?"
    ],
    "etymology": "[Shortened from aback.]"
}