{
    "word": "Bail",
    "definitions": [
        "To lade; to dip and throw; -- usually with out; as, to bail water out of a boat.",
        "To dip or lade water from; -- often with out to express completeness; as, to bail a boat.",
        "To deliver; to release.",
        "To set free, or deliver from arrest, or out of custody, on the undertaking of some other person or persons that he or they will be responsible for the appearance, at a certain day and place, of the person bailed.",
        "To deliver, as goods in trust, for some special object or purpose, upon a contract, expressed or implied, that the trust shall be faithfully executed on the part of the bailee, or person intrusted; as, to bail cloth to a tailor to be made into a garment; to bail goods to a carrier.",
        "Custody; keeping.",
        "The person or persons who procure the release of a prisoner from the custody of the officer, or from imprisonment, by becoming surety for his appearance in court.",
        "The security given for the appearance of a prisoner in order to obtain his release from custody of the officer; as, the man is out on bail; to go bail for any one.",
        "The arched handle of a kettle, pail, or similar vessel, usually movable.",
        "A half hoop for supporting the cover of a carrier's wagon, awning of a boat, etc.",
        "A line of palisades serving as an exterior defense.",
        "The outer wall of a feudal castle. Hence: The space inclosed by it; the outer court.",
        "A certain limit within a forest.",
        "A division for the stalls of an open stable.",
        "The top or cross piece (or either of the two cross pieces) of the wicket."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The bail of a canoe . . . made of a human skull.",
        "Buckets . . . to bail out the water.",
        "By the help of a small bucket and our hats we bailed her out.",
        "Ne none there was to rescue her, ne none to bail.",
        "Silly Faunus now within their bail.",
        "The bail must be real, substantial bondsmen.",
        "A. and B. were bail to the arrest in a suit at law.",
        "Excessive bail ought not to be required."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OF. bailler to give, to deliver, fr. L. bajulare to bear a burden, keep in custody, fr. bajulus he who bears burdens.]"
}