{
    "word": "Ball",
    "definitions": [
        "A spherical body of any substance or size used to play with, as by throwing, knocking, kicking, etc.",
        "A general name for games in which a ball is thrown, kicked, or knocked. See Baseball, and Football.",
        "Any solid spherical, cylindrical, or conical projectile of lead or iron, to be discharged from a firearm; as, a cannon ball; a rifle ball; -- often used collectively; as, powder and ball. Spherical balls for the smaller firearms are commonly called bullets.",
        "A flaming, roundish body shot into the air; a case filled with combustibles intended to burst and give light or set fire, or to produce smoke or stench; as, a fire ball; a stink ball.",
        "A leather-covered cushion, fastened to a handle called a ballstock; -- formerly used by printers for inking the form, but now superseded by the roller.",
        "A roundish protuberant portion of some part of the body; as, the ball of the thumb; the ball of the foot.",
        "A large pill, a form in which medicine is commonly given to horses; a bolus.",
        "The globe or earth.",
        "A pitched ball, not struck at by the batter, which fails to pass over the home plate at a height not greater than the batter's shoulder nor less than his knee (i.e. it is outside the strike zone). If the pitcher pitches four balls before three strikes are called, the batter advances to first base, and the action of pitching four balls is called a walk.",
        "a testicle; usually used in the plural.",
        "courage; nerve.",
        "To gather balls which cling to the feet, as of damp snow or clay; to gather into balls; as, the horse balls; the snow balls.",
        "To heat in a furnace and form into balls for rolling.",
        "To form or wind into a ball; as, to ball cotton.",
        "A social assembly for the purpose of dancing; -- usually applied to an occasion lavish or formal.",
        "A very enjoyable time; as, we had a ball at the wedding."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Move round the dark terrestrial ball."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. bal, fr. OF. baler to dance, fr. LL. ballare. Of uncertain origin; cf. Gr. ba`llein to toss or throw, or pa`llein, pa`llesqai, to leap, bound, balli`zein to dance, jump about; or cf. 1st Ball, n.]"
}