{
    "word": "Beat",
    "definitions": [
        "To punish by blows; to thrash.",
        "To scour or range over in hunting, accompanied with the noise made by striking bushes, etc., for the purpose of rousing game.",
        "To dash against, or strike, as with water or wind.",
        "To tread, as a path.",
        "To overcome in a battle, contest, strife, race, game, etc.; to vanquish, defeat, or conquer; to surpass or be superior to.",
        "To cheat; to chouse; to swindle; to defraud; -- often with out.",
        "To exercise severely; to perplex; to trouble.",
        "To give the signal for, by beat of drum; to sound by beat of drum; as, to beat an alarm, a charge, a parley, a retreat; to beat the general, the reveille, the tattoo. See Alarm, Charge, Parley, etc.",
        "to baffle or stump; to defy the comprehension of (a person); as, it beats me why he would do that.",
        "to evade, avoid, or escape (blame, taxes, punishment); as, to beat the rap (be acquitted); to beat the sales tax by buying out of state.",
        "To strike repeatedly; to inflict repeated blows; to knock vigorously or loudly.",
        "To move with pulsation or throbbing.",
        "To come or act with violence; to dash or fall with force; to strike anything, as rain, wind, and waves do.",
        "To be in agitation or doubt.",
        "To make progress against the wind, by sailing in a zigzag line or traverse.",
        "To make a sound when struck; as, the drums beat.",
        "To make a succession of strokes on a drum; as, the drummers beat to call soldiers to their quarters.",
        "To sound with more or less rapid alternations of greater and less intensity, so as to produce a pulsating effect; -- said of instruments, tones, or vibrations, not perfectly in unison.",
        "A recurring stroke; a throb; a pulsation; as, a beat of the heart; the beat of the pulse.",
        "The rise or fall of the hand or foot, marking the divisions of time; a division of the measure so marked. In the rhythm of music the beat is the unit.",
        "A transient grace note, struck immediately before the one it is intended to ornament.",
        "A sudden swelling or reBeat, v. i., 8.",
        "A round or course which is frequently gone over; as, a watchman's beat; analogously, for newspaper reporters, the subject or territory that they are assigned to cover; as, the Washington beat.",
        "A place of habitual or frequent resort.",
        "A cheat or swindler of the lowest grade; -- often emphasized by dead; as, a dead beat; also, deadbeat.",
        "Weary; tired; fatigued; exhausted.",
        "One that beats, or surpasses, another or others; as, the beat of him.",
        "The act of one that beats a person or thing",
        "The act of obtaining and publishing a piece of news by a newspaper before its competitors; also, the news itself; -- also called a scoop or exclusive.",
        "The act of scouring, or ranging over, a tract of land to rouse or drive out game; also, those so engaged, collectively.",
        "A smart tap on the adversary's blade."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Thou shalt beat some of it [spices] very small.",
        "They did beat the gold into thin plates.",
        "To beat the woods, and rouse the bounding prey.",
        "A frozen continent . . . beat with perpetual storms.",
        "Pass awful gulfs, and beat my painful way.",
        "He beat them in a bloody battle.",
        "For loveliness, it would be hard to beat that.",
        "Why should any one . . . beat his head about the Latin grammar who does not intend to be a critic?",
        "The men of the city . . . beat at the door.",
        "A thousand hearts beat happily.",
        "Sees rolling tempests vainly beat below.",
        "They [winds] beat at the crazy casement.",
        "The sun beat upon the head of Jonah, that he fainted, and wished in himself to die.",
        "Public envy seemeth to beat chiefly upon ministers.",
        "To still my beating mind.",
        "He, with a careless beat, Struck out the mute creation at a heat.",
        "Quite beat, and very much vexed and disappointed.",
        "It's a beat on the whole country.",
        "Bears coming out of holes in the rocks at the last moment, when the beat is close to them."
    ],
    "etymology": null
}