{
    "word": "Bill",
    "definitions": [
        "To strike; to peck.",
        "To join bills, as doves; to caress in fondness.",
        "The bell, or boom, of the bittern",
        "A weapon of infantry, in the 14th and 15th centuries. A common form of bill consisted of a broad, heavy, double-edged, hook-shaped blade, having a short pike at the back and another at the top, and attached to the end of a long staff.",
        "One who wields a bill; a billman.",
        "A pickax, or mattock.",
        "The extremity of the arm of an anchor; the point of or beyond the fluke.",
        "A declaration made in writing, stating some wrong the complainant has suffered from the defendant, or a fault committed by some person against a law.",
        "A writing binding the signer or signers to pay a certain sum at a future day or on demand, with or without interest, as may be stated in the document.",
        "A form or draft of a law, presented to a legislature for enactment; a proposed or projected law.",
        "A paper, written or printed, and posted up or given away, to advertise something, as a lecture, a play, or the sale of goods; a placard; a poster; a handbill.",
        "An account of goods sold, services rendered, or work done, with the price or charge; a statement of a creditor's claim, in gross or by items; as, a grocer's bill.",
        "Any paper, containing a statement of particulars; as, a bill of charges or expenditures; a weekly bill of mortality; a bill of fare, etc.",
        "To advertise by a bill or public notice.",
        "To charge or enter in a bill; as, to bill goods."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The bittern's hollow bill was heard.",
        "France had no infantry that dared to face the English bows end bills.",
        "She put up the bill in her parlor window."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. bil, AS. bill, bil; akin to OS. bil sword, OHG. bill pickax, G. bille. Cf. Bill bea 1. A cutting instrument, with hook-shaped point, and fitted with a handle; -- used in pruning, etc.; a billhook. When short, called a hand bill, when long, a hedge bill. [1913 Webster]"
}