{
    "word": "Bite",
    "definitions": [
        "To seize with the teeth, so that they enter or nip the thing seized; to lacerate, crush, or wound with the teeth; as, to bite an apple; to bite a crust; the dog bit a man.",
        "To puncture, abrade, or sting with an organ (of some insects) used in taking food.",
        "To cause sharp pain, or smarting, to; to hurt or injure, in a literal or a figurative sense; as, pepper bites the mouth.",
        "To cheat; to trick; to take in.",
        "To take hold of; to hold fast; to adhere to; as, the anchor bites the ground.",
        "To cause a smarting sensation; to have a property which causes such a sensation; to be pungent; as, it bites like pepper or mustard.",
        "To cause sharp pain; to produce anguish; to hurt or injure; to have the property of so doing.",
        "To take a bait into the mouth, as a fish does; hence, to take a tempting offer.",
        "To take or keep a firm hold; as, the anchor bites.",
        "The act of seizing with the teeth or mouth; the act of wounding or separating with the teeth or mouth; a seizure with the teeth or mouth, as of a bait; as, to give anything a hard bite.",
        "The act of puncturing or abrading with an organ for taking food, as is done by some insects.",
        "The wound made by biting; as, the pain of a dog's or snake's bite; the bite of a mosquito.",
        "A morsel; as much as is taken at once by biting.",
        "The hold which the short end of a lever has upon the thing to be lifted, or the hold which one part of a machine has upon another.",
        "A cheat; a trick; a fraud.",
        "A sharper; one who cheats.",
        "A blank on the edge or corner of a page, owing to a portion of the frisket, or something else, intervening between the type and paper."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Such smiling rogues as these, Like rats, oft bite the holy cords atwain.",
        "The last screw of the rack having been turned so often that its purchase crumbled, . . . it turned and turned with nothing to bite.",
        "At the last it [wine] biteth like serpent, and stingeth like an adder.",
        "I have known a very good fisher angle diligently four or six hours for a river carp, and not have a bite.",
        "The baser methods of getting money by fraud and bite, by deceiving and overreaching."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. bite, bit, bitt, AS. bite bite, fr. b to bite, akin to Icel. bit, OS. biti, G. biss. See Bite, v., and cf. Bit.]"
}