{
    "word": "Blank",
    "definitions": [
        "Of a white or pale color; without color.",
        "Free from writing, printing, or marks; having an empty space to be filled in with some special writing; -- said of checks, official documents, etc.; as, blank paper; a blank check; a blank ballot.",
        "Utterly confounded or discomfited.",
        "Empty; void; without result; fruitless; as, a blank space; a blank day.",
        "Lacking characteristics which give variety; as, a blank desert; a blank wall; destitute of interests, affections, hopes, etc.; as, to live a blank existence; destitute of sensations; as, blank unconsciousness.",
        "Lacking animation and intelligence, or their associated characteristics, as expression of face, look, etc.; expressionless; vacant.",
        "Absolute; downright; unmixed; as, blank terror.",
        "A lot by which nothing is gained; a ticket in a lottery on which no prize is indicated.",
        "A paper unwritten; a paper without marks or characters a blank ballot; -- especially, a paper on which are to be inserted designated items of information, for which spaces are left vacant; a bland form.",
        "A paper containing the substance of a legal instrument, as a deed, release, writ, or execution, with spaces left to be filled with names, date, descriptions, etc.",
        "The point aimed at in a target, marked with a white spot; hence, the object to which anything is directed.",
        "Aim; shot; range.",
        "A kind of base silver money, first coined in England by Henry V., and worth about 8 pence; also, a French coin of the seventeenth century, worth about 4 pence.",
        "A piece of metal prepared to be made into something by a further operation, as a coin, screw, nuts.",
        "A piece or division of a piece, without spots; as, the blankblank.",
        "To make void; to annul.",
        "To blanch; to make blank; to damp the spirits of; to dispirit or confuse."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "To the blank moon Her office they prescribed.",
        "Adam . . . astonied stood, and blank.",
        "The blank . . . glance of a half returned consciousness.",
        "I can not write a paper full, I used to do; and yet I will not forgive a blank of half an inch from you.",
        "From this time there ensues a long blank in the history of French legislation.",
        "I was ill. I can't tell how long -- it was a blank.",
        "In Fortune's lottery lies A heap of blanks, like this, for one small prize.",
        "The freemen signified their approbation by an inscribed vote, and their dissent by a blank.",
        "Let me still remain The true blank of thine eye.",
        "I have stood . . . within the blank of his displeasure For my free speech.",
        "Each opposite that blanks the face of joy."
    ],
    "etymology": "[Cf. 3d Blanch.]"
}