{
    "word": "Blind",
    "definitions": [
        "Not having the faculty of discernment; destitute of intellectual light; unable or unwilling to understand or judge; as, authors are blind to their own defects.",
        "Undiscerning; undiscriminating; inconsiderate.",
        "Having such a state or condition as a thing would have to a person who is blind; not well marked or easily discernible; hidden; unseen; concealed; as, a blind path; a blind ditch.",
        "Involved; intricate; not easily followed or traced.",
        "Having no openings for light or passage; as, a blind wall; open only at one end; as, a blind alley; a blind gut.",
        "Unintelligible, or not easily intelligible; as, a blind passage in a book; illegible; as, blind writing.",
        "Abortive; failing to produce flowers or fruit; as, blind buds; blind flowers.",
        "To deprive partially of vision; to make vision difficult for and painful to; to dazzle.",
        "To darken; to obscure to the eye or understanding; to conceal; to deceive.",
        "To cover with a thin coating of sand and fine gravel; as a road newly paved, in order that the joints between the stones may be filled.",
        "Something to mislead the eye or the understanding, or to conceal some covert deed or design; a subterfuge.",
        "A blindage. See Blindage.",
        "A halting place."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "He that is strucken blind can not forget The precious treasure of his eyesight lost.",
        "But hard be hardened, blind be blinded more, That they may stumble on, and deeper fall.",
        "This plan is recommended neither to blind approbation nor to blind reprobation.",
        "The blind mazes of this tangled wood.",
        "A blind guide is certainly a great mischief; but a guide that blinds those whom he should lead is . . . a much greater.",
        "Her beauty all the rest did blind.",
        "Such darkness blinds the sky.",
        "The state of the controversy between us he endeavored, with all his art, to blind and confound."
    ],
    "etymology": "[Cf. F. blindes, pblende, fr. blenden to blind, fr. blind blind.]"
}