{
    "word": "Blow",
    "definitions": [
        "To cause to blossom; to put forth (blossoms or flowers).",
        "A blossom; a flower; also, a state of blossoming; a mass of blossoms.",
        "A forcible stroke with the hand, fist, or some instrument, as a rod, a club, an ax, or a sword.",
        "A sudden or forcible act or effort; an assault.",
        "The infliction of evil; a sudden calamity; something which produces mental, physical, or financial suffering or loss (esp. when sudden); a buffet.",
        "To produce a current of air; to move, as air, esp. to move rapidly or with power; as, the wind blows.",
        "To send forth a forcible current of air, as from the mouth or from a pair of bellows.",
        "To breathe hard or quick; to pant; to puff.",
        "To sound on being blown into, as a trumpet.",
        "To spout water, etc., from the blowholes, as a whale.",
        "To be carried or moved by the wind; as, the dust blows in from the street.",
        "To talk loudly; to boast; to storm.",
        "To stop functioning due to a failure in an electrical circuit, especially on which breaks the circuit; sometimes used with out; -- used of light bulbs, electronic components, fuses; as, the dome light in the car blew out.",
        "To deflate by sudden loss of air; usually used with out; -- of inflatable tires.",
        "To force a current of air upon with the mouth, or by other means; as, to blow the fire.",
        "To drive by a current air; to impel; as, the tempest blew the ship ashore.",
        "To cause air to pass through by the action of the mouth, or otherwise; to cause to sound, as a wind instrument; as, to blow a trumpet; to blow an organ; to blow a horn.",
        "To clear of contents by forcing air through; as, to blow an egg; to blow one's nose.",
        "To burst, shatter, or destroy by an explosion; -- usually with up, down, open, or similar adverb; as, to blow up a building.",
        "To spread by report; to publish; to disclose; to reveal, intentionally or inadvertently; as, to blow an agent's cover.",
        "To form by inflation; to swell by injecting air; as, to blow bubbles; to blow glass.",
        "To inflate, as with pride; to puff up.",
        "To put out of breath; to cause to blow from fatigue; as, to blow a horse.",
        "To deposit eggs or larv [1913 Webster]",
        "To perform an act of fellatio on; to stimulate another's penis with one's mouth; -- usually considered vulgar.",
        "to smoke (e. g. marijuana); to blow pot.",
        "to botch; to bungle; as, he blew his chance at a good job by showing up late for the interview.",
        "to leave; to depart from; as, to blow town.",
        "to squander; as, he blew his inheritance gambling.",
        "The act of forcing air from the mouth, or through or from some instrument; as, to give a hard blow on a whistle or horn; to give the fire a blow with the bellows.",
        "The spouting of a whale.",
        "A single heat or operation of the Bessemer converter.",
        "An egg, or a larva, deposited by a fly on or in flesh, or the act of depositing it."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "How blows the citron grove.",
        "The odorous banks, that blow Flowers of more mingled hue.",
        "Well struck ! there was blow for blow.",
        "A vigorous blow might win [Hanno's camp].",
        "A most poor man, made tame to fortune's blows.",
        "Hark how it rains and blows !",
        "Here is Mistress Page at the door, sweating and blowing.",
        "There let the pealing organ blow.",
        "The grass blows from their graves to thy own.",
        "You blow behind my back, but dare not say anything to my face.",
        "Off at sea northeast winds blow Sabean odors from the spicy shore.",
        "Hath she no husband That will take pains to blow a horn before her?",
        "Boy, blow the pipe until the bubble rise, Then cast it off to float upon the skies.",
        "Through the court his courtesy was blown.",
        "His language does his knowledge blow.",
        "Look how imagination blows him.",
        "To suffer The flesh fly blow my mouth.",
        "I have blown him up well -- nobody can say I wink at what he does.",
        "How far the very custom of hearing anything spouted withers and blows upon a fine passage, may be seen in those speeches from [Shakespeare's] Henry V. which are current in the mouths of schoolboys.",
        "A lady's maid whose character had been blown upon."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. blaw, blowe; cf. OHG. bliuwan, pliuwan, to beat, G. bl, Goth. bliggwan.]"
}