{
    "word": "Bore",
    "definitions": [
        "To form or enlarge by means of a boring instrument or apparatus; as, to bore a steam cylinder or a gun barrel; to bore a hole.",
        "To make (a passage) by laborious effort, as in boring; as, to bore one's way through a crowd; to force a narrow and difficult passage through.",
        "To weary by tedious iteration or by dullness; to tire; to trouble; to vex; to annoy; to pester.",
        "To befool; to trick.",
        "To make a hole or perforation with, or as with, a boring instrument; to cut a circular hole by the rotary motion of a tool; as, to bore for water or oil (i. e., to sink a well by boring for water or oil); to bore with a gimlet; to bore into a tree (as insects).",
        "To be pierced or penetrated by an instrument that cuts as it turns; as, this timber does not bore well, or is hard to bore.",
        "To push forward in a certain direction with laborious effort.",
        "To shoot out the nose or toss it in the air; -- said of a horse.",
        "The internal cylindrical cavity of a gun, cannon, pistol, or other firearm, or of a pipe or tube.",
        "The size of a hole; the interior diameter of a tube or gun barrel; the caliber.",
        "A tool for making a hole by boring, as an auger.",
        "Caliber; importance.",
        "A person or thing that wearies by prolixity or dullness; a tiresome person or affair; any person or thing which causes ennui.",
        "imp. of 1st & 2d Bear."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "I'll believe as soon this whole earth may be bored.",
        "Short but very powerful jaws, by means whereof the insect can bore, as with a centerbit, a cylindrical passage through the most solid wood.",
        "He bores me with some trick.",
        "Used to come and bore me at rare intervals.",
        "I am abused, betrayed; I am laughed at, scorned, Baffled and bored, it seems.",
        "They take their flight . . . boring to the west.",
        "The bores of wind instruments.",
        "Love's counselor should fill the bores of hearing.",
        "Yet are they much too light for the bore of the matter.",
        "It is as great a bore as to hear a poet read his own verses."
    ],
    "etymology": "[Icel. b wave: cf. G. empor upwards, OHG. bor height, burren to lift, perh. allied to AS. beran, E. 1st bear. (Physical Geog.) (a) A tidal flood which regularly or occasionally rushes into certain rivers of peculiar configuration or location, in one or more waves which present a very abrupt front of considerable height, dangerous to shipping, as at the mouth of the Amazon, in South America, the Hoogly and Indus, in India, and the Tsien-tang, in China. (b) Less properly, a very high and rapid tidal flow, when not so abrupt, such as occurs at the Bay of Fundy and in the British Channel. [1913 Webster]"
}