{
    "word": "Bottom",
    "definitions": [
        "The part of anything which is beneath the contents and supports them, as the part of a chair on which a person sits, the circular base or lower head of a cask or tub, or the plank floor of a ship's hold; the under surface.",
        "That upon which anything rests or is founded, in a literal or a figurative sense; foundation; groundwork.",
        "The bed of a body of water, as of a river, lake, sea.",
        "The fundament; the buttocks.",
        "An abyss.",
        "Low land formed by alluvial deposits along a river; low-lying ground; a dale; a valley.",
        "The part of a ship which is ordinarily under water; hence, the vessel itself; a ship.",
        "Power of endurance; as, a horse of a good bottom.",
        "Dregs or grounds; lees; sediment.",
        "Of or pertaining to the bottom; fundamental; lowest; under; as, bottom rock; the bottom board of a wagon box; bottom prices.",
        "To found or build upon; to fix upon as a support; -- followed by on or upon.",
        "To furnish with a bottom; as, to bottom a chair.",
        "To reach or get to the bottom of.",
        "To rest, as upon an ultimate support; to be based or grounded; -- usually with on or upon.",
        "To reach or impinge against the bottom, so as to impede free action, as when the point of a cog strikes the bottom of a space between two other cogs, or a piston the end of a cylinder.",
        "A ball or skein of thread; a cocoon.",
        "To wind round something, as in making a ball of thread."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Or dive into the bottom of the deep.",
        "Barrels with the bottom knocked out.",
        "No two chairs were alike; such high backs and low backs and leather bottoms and worsted bottoms.",
        "My ventures are not in one bottom trusted.",
        "Not to sell the teas, but to return them to London in the same bottoms in which they were shipped.",
        "He was at the bottom of many excellent counsels.",
        "Action is supposed to be bottomed upon principle.",
        "Those false and deceiving grounds upon which many bottom their eternal state].",
        "Find on what foundation any proposition bottoms.",
        "Silkworms finish their bottoms in . . . fifteen days.",
        "As you unwind her love from him, Lest it should ravel and be good to none, You must provide to bottom it on me."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. botme, perh. corrupt. for button. See Button.]"
}