{
    "word": "Bow",
    "definitions": [
        "To cause to deviate from straightness; to bend; to inflect; to make crooked or curved.",
        "To exercise powerful or controlling influence over; to bend, figuratively; to turn; to incline.",
        "To bend or incline, as the head or body, in token of respect, gratitude, assent, homage, or condescension.",
        "To cause to bend down; to prostrate; to depress,; [1913 Webster]",
        "To express by bowing; as, to bow one's thanks.",
        "To bend; to curve.",
        "To stop.",
        "To bend the head, knee, or body, in token of reverence or submission; -- often with down.",
        "To incline the head in token of salutation, civility, or assent; to make bow.",
        "An inclination of the head, or a bending of the body, in token of reverence, respect, civility, or submission; an obeisance; as, a bow of deep humility.",
        "Anything bent, or in the form of a curve, as the rainbow.",
        "A weapon made of a strip of wood, or other elastic material, with a cord connecting the two ends, by means of which an arrow is propelled.",
        "An ornamental knot, with projecting loops, formed by doubling a ribbon or string.",
        "The U-shaped piece which embraces the neck of an ox and fastens it to the yoke.",
        "An appliance consisting of an elastic rod, with a number of horse hairs stretched from end to end of it, used in playing on a stringed instrument.",
        "An arcograph.",
        "Any instrument consisting of an elastic rod, with ends connected by a string, employed for giving reciprocating motion to a drill, or for preparing and arranging the hair, fur, etc., used by hatters.",
        "A rude sort of quadrant formerly used for taking the sun's altitude at sea.",
        "Two pieces of wood which form the arched forward part of a saddletree.",
        "The bending or rounded part of a ship forward; the stream or prow.",
        "One who rows in the forward part of a boat; the bow oar."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "We bow things the contrary way, to make them come to their natural straightness.",
        "The whole nation bowed their necks to the worst kind of tyranny.",
        "Adversities do more bow men's minds to religion.",
        "Not to bow and bias their opinions.",
        "They came to meet him, and bowed themselves to the ground before him.",
        "Whose heavy hand hath bowed you to the grave.",
        "They stoop, they bow down together.",
        "O come, let us worship and bow down: let us kneel before the Lord our maker.",
        "Admired, adored by all circling crowd, For wheresoe'er she turned her face, they bowed.",
        "I do set my bow in the cloud."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. bowen, bogen, bugen, AS. b (generally v. i.); akin to D. buigen, OHG. biogan, G. biegen, beugen, Icel. boginn bent, beygja to bend, Sw. b, Dan. b, bugne, Coth. biugan; also to L. fugere to flee, Gr. bhuj to bend. Fugitive.]"
}