{
    "word": "Brake",
    "definitions": [
        "A fern of the genus Pteris, esp. the Pteris aquilina, common in almost all countries. It has solitary stems dividing into three principal branches. Less properly: Any fern.",
        "A thicket; a place overgrown with shrubs and brambles, with undergrowth and ferns, or with canes.",
        "An extended handle by means of which a number of men can unite in working a pump, as in a fire engine.",
        "A baker's kneading though.",
        "A sharp bit or snaffle.",
        "A frame for confining a refractory horse while the smith is shoeing him; also, an inclosure to restrain cattle, horses, etc.",
        "That part of a carriage, as of a movable battery, or engine, which enables it to turn.",
        "An ancient engine of war analogous to the crossbow and ballista.",
        "A large, heavy harrow for breaking clods after plowing; a drag.",
        "A piece of mechanism for retarding or stopping motion by friction, as of a carriage or railway car, by the pressure of rubbers against the wheels, or of clogs or ratchets against the track or roadway, or of a pivoted lever against a wheel or drum in a machine.",
        "An apparatus for testing the power of a steam engine, or other motor, by weighing the amount of friction that the motor will overcome; a friction brake.",
        "A cart or carriage without a body, used in breaking in horses.",
        "An ancient instrument of torture."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Rounds rising hillocks, brakes obscure and rough, To shelter thee from tempest and from rain.",
        "He stayed not for brake, and he stopped not for stone.",
        "Pampered jades . . . which need nor break nor bit.",
        "A horse . . . which Philip had bought . . . and because of his fierceness kept him within a brake of iron bars."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. brake fern; cf. AS. bracce fern, LG. brake willow bush, Da. bregne fern, G. brach fallow; prob. orig. the growth on rough, broken ground, fr. the root of E. break. See Break, v. t., cf. Bracken, and 2d Brake, n.]"
}