{
    "word": "Burn",
    "definitions": [
        "To injure by fire or heat; to change destructively some property or properties of, by undue exposure to fire or heat; to scorch; to scald; to blister; to singe; to char; to sear; as, to burn steel in forging; to burn one's face in the sun; the sun burns the grass.",
        "To perfect or improve by fire or heat; to submit to the action of fire or heat for some economic purpose; to destroy or change some property or properties of, by exposure to fire or heat in due degree for obtaining a desired residuum, product, or effect; to bake; as, to burn clay in making bricks or pottery; to burn wood so as to produce charcoal; to burn limestone for the lime.",
        "To make or produce, as an effect or result, by the application of fire or heat; as, to burn a hole; to burn charcoal; to burn letters into a block.",
        "To consume, injure, or change the condition of, as if by action of fire or heat; to affect as fire or heat does; as, to burn the mouth with pepper.",
        "To apply a cautery to; to cauterize.",
        "To cause to combine with oxygen or other active agent, with evolution of heat; to consume; to oxidize; as, a man burns a certain amount of carbon at each respiration; to burn iron in oxygen.",
        "To be of fire; to flame.",
        "To suffer from, or be scorched by, an excess of heat.",
        "To have a condition, quality, appearance, sensation, or emotion, as if on fire or excessively heated; to act or rage with destructive violence; to be in a state of lively emotion or strong desire; as, the face burns; to burn with fever.",
        "To combine energetically, with evolution of heat; as, copper burns in chlorine.",
        "In certain games, to approach near to a concealed object which is sought.",
        "A hurt, injury, or effect caused by fire or excessive or intense heat.",
        "The operation or result of burning or baking, as in brickmaking; as, they have a good burn.",
        "A disease in vegetables. See Brand, n., 6.",
        "A small stream."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "This tyrant fever burns me up.",
        "This dry sorrow burns up all my tears.",
        "When the cold north wind bloweth, . . . it devoureth the mountains, and burneth the wilderness, and consumeth the Ecclus. xliii. 20, 21. [1913 Webster]",
        "Your meat doth burn, quoth I.",
        "Did not our heart burn within us, while he talked with us by the way?",
        "The barge she sat in, like a burnished throne, Burned on the water.",
        "Burning with high hope.",
        "The groan still deepens, and the combat burns.",
        "The parching air Burns frore, and cold performs the effect of fire."
    ],
    "etymology": "[See 1st Bourn.]"
}