{
    "word": "But",
    "definitions": [
        "Except; besides; save.",
        "Excepting or excluding the fact that; save that; were it not that; unless; -- elliptical, for but that.",
        "Otherwise than that; that not; -- commonly, after a negative, with that.",
        "Only; solely; merely.",
        "On the contrary; on the other hand; only; yet; still; however; nevertheless; more; further; -- as connective of sentences or clauses of a sentence, in a sense more or less exceptive or adversative; as, the House of Representatives passed the bill, but the Senate dissented; our wants are many, but quite of another kind.",
        "A limit; a boundary.",
        "The end; esp. the larger or thicker end, or the blunt, in distinction from the sharp, end. Now disused in this sense, being replaced by butt{2}. See 1st Butt.",
        "See Butt, v., and Abut, v.",
        "The larger or thicker end of anything; the blunt end, in distinction from the sharp end; as, the butt of a rifle. Formerly also spelled but. See 2nd but, n. sense 2.",
        "A mark to be shot at; a target.",
        "A person at whom ridicule, jest, or contempt is directed; as, the butt of the company.",
        "A push, thrust, or sudden blow, given by the head of an animal; as, the butt of a ram.",
        "A thrust in fencing.",
        "A piece of land left unplowed at the end of a field.",
        "A joint where the ends of two objects come squarely together without scarfing or chamfering; -- also called butt joint.",
        "The end of a connecting rod or other like piece, to which the boxing is attached by the strap, cotter, and gib.",
        "The portion of a half-coupling fastened to the end of a hose.",
        "The joint where two planks in a strake meet.",
        "A kind of hinge used in hanging doors, etc.; -- so named because fastened on the edge of the door, which butts against the casing, instead of on its face, like the strap hinge; also called butt hinge.",
        "The thickest and stoutest part of tanned oxhides, used for soles of boots, harness, trunks.",
        "The hut or shelter of the person who attends to the targets in rifle practice.",
        "The buttocks; as, get up off your butt and get to work; -- used as a euphemism, less objectionable than ass."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "So insolent that he could not go but either spurning equals or trampling on his inferiors.",
        "Touch not the cat but a glove.",
        "Who can it be, ye gods! but perjured Lycon?",
        "And but my noble Moor is true of mind . . . it were enough to put him to ill thinking.",
        "It cannot be but nature hath some director, of infinite power, to guide her in all her ways.",
        "There is no question but the king of Spain will reform most of the abuses.",
        "Observe but how their own principles combat one another.",
        "If they kill us, we shall but die.",
        "A formidable man but to his friends.",
        "Now abideth faith hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity.",
        "When pride cometh, then cometh shame; but with the lowly is wisdom.",
        "But and if that servant say in his heart, My lord delayeth his coming; . . . the lord of that servant will come in a day when he looketh not for him.",
        "But this I read, that but if remedy Thou her afford, full shortly I her dead shall see.",
        "Here is my journey's end, here my butt And very sea mark of my utmost sail.",
        "The groom his fellow groom at butts defies, And bends his bow, and levels with his eyes.",
        "I played a sentence or two at my butt, which I thought very smart.",
        "To prove who gave the fairer butt, John shows the chalk on Robert's coat.",
        "The hay was growing upon headlands and butts in cornfields.",
        "Amen; and make me die a good old man! That's the butt end of a mother's blessing."
    ],
    "etymology": "[See 1st But.]"
}