{
    "word": "Carry",
    "definitions": [
        "To convey or transport in any manner from one place to another; to bear; -- often with away or off.",
        "To have or hold as a burden, while moving from place to place; to have upon or about one's person; to bear; as, to carry a wound; to carry an unborn child.",
        "To move; to convey by force; to impel; to conduct; to lead or guide.",
        "To transfer from one place (as a country, book, or column) to another; as, to carry the war from Greece into Asia; to carry an account to the ledger; to carry a number in adding figures.",
        "To convey by extension or continuance; to extend; as, to carry the chimney through the roof; to carry a road ten miles farther.",
        "To bear or uphold successfully through conflict, as a leader or principle; hence, to succeed in, as in a contest; to bring to a successful issue; to win; as, to carry an election.",
        "To get possession of by force; to capture.",
        "To contain; to comprise; to bear the aspect of ; to show or exhibit; to imply.",
        "To bear (one's self); to behave, to conduct or demean; -- with the reflexive pronouns.",
        "To bear the charges or burden of holding or having, as stocks, merchandise, etc., from one time to another; as, a merchant is carrying a large stock; a farm carries a mortgage; a broker carries stock for a customer; to carry a life insurance.",
        "To act as a bearer; to convey anything; as, to fetch and carry.",
        "To have propulsive power; to propel; as, a gun or mortar carries well.",
        "To hold the head; -- said of a horse; as, to carry well i. e., to hold the head high, with arching neck.",
        "To have earth or frost stick to the feet when running, as a hare.",
        "A tract of land, over which boats or goods are carried between two bodies of navigable water; a carrying place; a portage."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "When he dieth he shall carry nothing away.",
        "Devout men carried Stephen to his burial.",
        "Another carried the intelligence to Russell.",
        "The sound will be carried, at the least, twenty miles.",
        "If the ideas . . . were carried along with us in our minds.",
        "Go, carry Sir John Falstaff to the Fleet.",
        "He carried away all his cattle.",
        "Passion and revenge will carry them too far.",
        "The carrying of our main point.",
        "The town would have been carried in the end.",
        "He thought it carried something of argument in it.",
        "It carries too great an imputation of ignorance.",
        "He carried himself so insolently in the house, and out of the house, to all persons, that he became odious."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OF. carier, charier, F. carrier, to cart, from OF. car, char, F. car, car. See Car.]"
}