{
    "word": "Catch",
    "definitions": [
        "To lay hold on; to seize, especially with the hand; to grasp (anything) in motion, with the effect of holding; as, to catch a ball.",
        "To seize after pursuing; to arrest; as, to catch a thief.",
        "To take captive, as in a snare or net, or on a hook; as, to catch a bird or fish.",
        "Hence: To insnare; to entangle.",
        "To seize with the senses or the mind; to apprehend; as, to catch a melody.",
        "To communicate to; to fasten upon; as, the fire caught the adjoining building.",
        "To engage and attach; to please; to charm.",
        "To get possession of; to attain.",
        "To take or receive; esp. to take by sympathy, contagion, infection, or exposure; as, to catch the spirit of an occasion; to catch the measles or smallpox; to catch cold; the house caught fire.",
        "To come upon unexpectedly or by surprise; to find; as, to catch one in the act of stealing.",
        "To reach in time; to come up with; as, to catch a train.",
        "To attain possession.",
        "To be held or impeded by entanglement or a light obstruction; as, a kite catches in a tree; a door catches so as not to open.",
        "To take hold; as, the bolt does not catch.",
        "To spread by, or as by, infecting; to communicate.",
        "Act of seizing; a grasp.",
        "That by which anything is caught or temporarily fastened; as, the catch of a gate.",
        "The posture of seizing; a state of preparation to lay hold of, or of watching he opportunity to seize; as, to lie on the catch.",
        "That which is caught or taken; profit; gain; especially, the whole quantity caught or taken at one time; as, a good catch of fish.",
        "Something desirable to be caught, esp. a husband or wife in matrimony.",
        "Passing opportunities seized; snatches.",
        "A slight remembrance; a trace.",
        "A humorous canon or round, so contrived that the singers catch up each other's words."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The soothing arts that catch the fair.",
        "Torment myself to catch the English throne.",
        "Have is have, however men do catch.",
        "Does the sedition catch from man to man?",
        "The common and the canon law . . . lie at catch, and wait advantages one againt another.",
        "Hector shall have a great catch if he knock out either of your brains.",
        "It has been writ by catches with many intervals.",
        "We retain a catch of those pretty stories."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. cacchen, OF. cachier, dialectic form of chacier to hunt, F. chasser, fr. (assumend) LL. captiare, for L. capture, V. intens. of capere to take, catch. See Capacious, and cf. Chase, Case a box.]"
}