{
    "word": "Challenge",
    "definitions": [
        "An invitation to engage in a contest or controversy of any kind; a defiance; specifically, a summons to fight a duel; also, the letter or message conveying the summons.",
        "The act of a sentry in halting any one who appears at his post, and demanding the countersign.",
        "A claim or demand.",
        "The opening and crying of hounds at first finding the scent of their game.",
        "An exception to a juror or to a member of a court martial, coupled with a demand that he should be held incompetent to act; the claim of a party that a certain person or persons shall not sit in trial upon him or his cause.",
        "An exception to a person as not legally qualified to vote. The challenge must be made when the ballot is offered.",
        "To call to a contest of any kind; to call to answer; to defy.",
        "To call, invite, or summon to answer for an offense by personal combat.",
        "To claim as due; to demand as a right.",
        "To censure; to blame.",
        "To question or demand the countersign from (one who attempts to pass the lines); as, the sentinel challenged us, with",
        "To take exception to; question; as, to challenge the accuracy of a statement or of a quotation.",
        "To object to or take exception to, as to a juror, or member of a court.",
        "To object to the reception of the vote of, as on the ground that the person in not qualified as a voter.",
        "To assert a right; to claim a place."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "A challenge to controversy.",
        "There must be no challenge of superiority.",
        "I challenge any man to make any pretense to power by right of fatherhood.",
        "By this I challenge him to single fight.",
        "Challenge better terms.",
        "He complained of the emperors . . . and challenged them for that he had no greater revenues . . . from them.",
        "Where nature doth with merit challenge."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. chalenge claim, accusation, challenge, OF. chalenge, chalonge, claim, accusation, contest, fr. L. calumnia false accusation, chicanery. See Calumny.]"
}