{
    "word": "Charge",
    "definitions": [
        "To lay on or impose, as a task, duty, or trust; to command, instruct, or exhort with authority; to enjoin; to urge earnestly; as, to charge a jury; to charge the clergy of a diocese; to charge an agent.",
        "To lay on, impose, or make subject to or liable for.",
        "To fix or demand as a price; as, he charges two dollars a barrel for apples.",
        "To place something to the account of as a debt; to debit, as, to charge one with goods. Also, to enter upon the debit side of an account; as, to charge a sum to one.",
        "To impute or ascribe; to lay to one's charge.",
        "To accuse; to make a charge or assertion against (a person or thing); to lay the responsibility (for something said or done) at the door of.",
        "To place within or upon any firearm, piece of apparatus or machinery, the quantity it is intended and fitted to hold or bear; to load; to fill; as, to charge a gun; to charge an electrical machine, etc.",
        "To ornament with or cause to bear; as, to charge an architectural member with a molding.",
        "To assume as a bearing; as, he charges three roses or; to add to or represent on; as, he charges his shield with three roses or.",
        "To call to account; to challenge.",
        "To bear down upon; to rush upon; to attack.",
        "To make an onset or rush; as, to charge with fixed bayonets.",
        "To demand a price; as, to charge high for goods.",
        "To debit on an account; as, to charge for purchases.",
        "To squat on its belly and be still; -- a command given by a sportsman to a dog.",
        "A load or burder laid upon a person or thing.",
        "A person or thing commited or intrusted to the care, custody, or management of another; a trust.",
        "Custody or care of any person, thing, or place; office; responsibility; oversight; obigation; duty.",
        "Heed; care; anxiety; trouble.",
        "Harm.",
        "An order; a mandate or command; an injunction.",
        "An address (esp. an earnest or impressive address) containing instruction or exhortation; as, the charge of a judge to a jury; the charge of a bishop to his clergy.",
        "An accusation of a wrong of offense; allegation; indictment; specification of something alleged.",
        "Whatever constitutes a burden on property, as rents, taxes, lines, etc.; costs; expense incurred; -- usually in the plural.",
        "The price demanded for a thing or service.",
        "An entry or a account of that which is due from one party to another; that which is debited in a business transaction; as, a charge in an account book.",
        "That quantity, as of ammunition, electricity, ore, fuel, etc., which any apparatus, as a gun, battery, furnace, machine, etc., is intended to receive and fitted to hold, or which is actually in it at one time",
        "The act of rushing upon, or towards, an enemy; a sudden onset or attack, as of troops, esp. cavalry; hence, the signal for attack; as, to sound the charge.",
        "A position (of a weapon) fitted for attack; as, to bring a weapon to the charge.",
        "A sort of plaster or ointment.",
        "A bearing. See Bearing, n., 8.",
        "Thirty-six pigs of lead, each pig weighing about seventy pounds; -- called also charre.",
        "Weight; import; value."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "A carte that charged was with hay.",
        "The charging of children's memories with rules.",
        "Moses . . . charged you to love the Lord your God.",
        "Cromwell, I charge thee, fling away ambition.",
        "When land shall be charged by any lien.",
        "No more accuse thy pen, but charge the crime On native sloth and negligence of time.",
        "If he did that wrong you charge him with.",
        "Their battering cannon charged to the mouths.",
        "To charge me to an answer.",
        "Charged our main battle's front.",
        "Like your heroes of antiquity, he charges in iron.",
        "Charge for the guns! Tennyson. [1913 Webster]",
        "'Tis a great charge to come under one body's hand.",
        "The king gave cherge concerning Absalom.",
        "The charge of confounding very different classes of phenomena.",
        "Never, in any other war afore, gave the Romans a hotter charge upon the enemies.",
        "The charge of the light brigade.",
        "Many suchlike charge."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. charge, fr. charger to load. See Charge, v. t., and cf. Cargo, Caricature.]"
}