{
    "word": "Clear",
    "definitions": [
        "Free from ambiguity or indistinctness; lucid; perspicuous; plain; evident; manifest; indubitable.",
        "Able to perceive clearly; keen; acute; penetrating; discriminating; as, a clear intellect; a clear head.",
        "Not clouded with passion; serene; cheerful.",
        "Easily or distinctly heard; audible; canorous.",
        "Without mixture; entirely pure; as, clear sand.",
        "Without defect or blemish, such as freckles or knots; as, a clear complexion; clear lumber.",
        "Free from guilt or stain; unblemished.",
        "Without diminution; in full; net; as, clear profit.",
        "Free from impediment or obstruction; unobstructed; as, a clear view; to keep clear of debt.",
        "Free from embarrassment; detention, etc.",
        "In a clear manner; plainly.",
        "Without limitation; wholly; quite; entirely; as, to cut a piece clear off.",
        "To render bright, transparent, or undimmed; to free from clouds.",
        "To free from impurities; to clarify; to cleanse.",
        "To free from obscurity or ambiguity; to relive of perplexity; to make perspicuous.",
        "To render more quick or acute, as the understanding; to make perspicacious.",
        "To free from impediment or incumbrance, from defilement, or from anything injurious, useless, or offensive; as, to clear land of trees or brushwood, or from stones; to clear the sight or the voice; to clear one's self from debt; -- often used with of, off, away, or out.",
        "To free from the imputation of guilt; to justify, vindicate, or acquit; -- often used with from before the thing imputed.",
        "To leap or pass by, or over, without touching or failure; as, to clear a hedge; to clear a reef.",
        "To gain without deduction; to net.",
        "To become free from turbidity; -- of solutions or suspensions of liquids; as, the salt has not completely dissolved until the suspension clears up; when refrigerated, the juice may become cloudy, but when warmed to room temperature, it clears up again.",
        "To disengage one's self from incumbrances, distress, or entanglements; to become free.",
        "To make exchanges of checks and bills, and settle balances, as is done in a clearing house.",
        "To obtain a clearance; as, the steamer cleared for Liverpool to-day."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The stream is so transparent, pure, and clear.",
        "Fair as the moon, clear as the sun.",
        "One truth is clear; whatever is, is right.",
        "Mother of science! now I feel thy power Within me clear, not only to discern Things in their causes, but to trace the ways Of highest agents.",
        "With a countenance as clear As friendship wears at feasts.",
        "Hark! the numbers soft and clear Gently steal upon the ear.",
        "Statesman, yet friend to truth! in soul sincere, In action faithful, and in honor clear.",
        "I often wished that I had clear, For life, six hundred pounds a-year.",
        "My companion . . . left the way clear for him.",
        "The cruel corporal whispered in my ear, Five pounds, if rightly tipped, would set me clear.",
        "Now clear I understand What oft . . . thoughts have searched in vain.",
        "He sweeps the skies and clears the cloudy north.",
        "Many knotty points there are Which all discuss, but few can clear.",
        "Our common prints would clear up their understandings.",
        "Clear your mind of cant.",
        "A statue lies hid in a block of marble; and the art of the statuary only clears away the superfluous matter.",
        "I . . . am sure he will clear me from partiality.",
        "How! wouldst thou clear rebellion?",
        "The profit which she cleared on the cargo.",
        "So foul a sky clears not without a storm.",
        "Advise him to stay till the weather clears up.",
        "He that clears at once will relapse; for finding himself out of straits, he will revert to his customs; but he that cleareth by degrees induceth a habit of frugality."
    ],
    "etymology": null
}