{
    "word": "Command",
    "definitions": [
        "To order with authority; to lay injunction upon; to direct; to bid; to charge.",
        "To exercise direct authority over; to have control of; to have at one's disposal; to lead.",
        "To have within a sphere of control, influence, access, or vision; to dominate by position; to guard; to overlook.",
        "To have power or influence of the nature of authority over; to obtain as if by ordering; to receive as a due; to challenge; to claim; as, justice commands the respect and affections of the people; the best goods command the best price.",
        "To direct to come; to bestow.",
        "To have or to exercise direct authority; to govern; to sway; to influence; to give an order or orders.",
        "To have a view, as from a superior position.",
        "An authoritative order requiring obedience; a mandate; an injunction.",
        "The possession or exercise of authority.",
        "Authority; power or right of control; leadership; as, the forces under his command.",
        "Power to dominate, command, or overlook by means of position; scope of vision; survey.",
        "Control; power over something; sway; influence; as, to have command over one's temper or voice; the fort has command of the bridge.",
        "A body of troops, or any naval or military force or post, or the whole territory under the authority or control of a particular officer."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "We are commanded to forgive our enemies, but you never read that we are commanded to forgive our friends.",
        "Go to your mistress: Say, I command her come to me.",
        "Monmouth commanded the English auxiliaries.",
        "Such aid as I can spare you shall command.",
        "Bridges commanded by a fortified house.",
        "Up to the eastern tower, Whose height commands as subject all the vale.",
        "One side commands a view of the finest garden.",
        "'Tis not in mortals to command success.",
        "I will command my blessing upon you.",
        "And reigned, commanding in his monarchy.",
        "For the king had so commanded concerning [Haman].",
        "Far and wide his eye commands.",
        "Awaiting what command their mighty chief Had to impose.",
        "Command and force may often create, but can never cure, an aversion.",
        "The steepy stand Which overlooks the vale with wide command.",
        "He assumed an absolute command over his readers."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. comaunden, commanden, OF. comander, F. commander, fr. L. com- + mandare to commit to, to command. Cf. Commend, Mandate.]"
}