{
    "word": "Common",
    "definitions": [
        "Belonging or relating equally, or similarly, to more than one; as, you and I have a common interest in the property.",
        "Belonging to or shared by, affecting or serving, all the members of a class, considered together; general; public; as, properties common to all plants; the common schools; the Book of Common Prayer.",
        "Often met with; usual; frequent; customary.",
        "Not distinguished or exceptional; inconspicuous; ordinary; plebeian; -- often in a depreciatory sense.",
        "Profane; polluted.",
        "Given to habits of lewdness; prostitute.",
        "The people; the community.",
        "An inclosed or uninclosed tract of ground for pleasure, for pasturage, etc., the use of which belongs to the public; or to a number of persons.",
        "The right of taking a profit in the land of another, in common either with the owner or with other persons; -- so called from the community of interest which arises between the claimant of the right and the owner of the soil, or between the claimants and other commoners entitled to the same right.",
        "To converse together; to discourse; to confer.",
        "To participate.",
        "To have a joint right with others in common ground.",
        "To board together; to eat at a table in common."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Though life and sense be common to men and brutes.",
        "Such actions as the common good requireth.",
        "The common enemy of man.",
        "Grief more than common grief.",
        "The honest, heart-felt enjoyment of common life.",
        "This fact was infamous And ill beseeming any common man, Much more a knight, a captain and a leader.",
        "Above the vulgar flight of common souls.",
        "What God hath cleansed, that call not thou common.",
        "A dame who herself was common.",
        "Embassadors were sent upon both parts, and divers means of entreaty were commoned of."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. commun, comon, OF. comun, F. commun, fr. L. communis; com- + munis ready to be of service; cf. Skr. mi to make fast, set up, build, Goth. gamains common, G. gemein, and E. mean low, common. Cf. Immunity, Commune, n. & v.]"
}