{
    "word": "Compound",
    "definitions": [
        "To put together, as elements, ingredients, or parts, in order to form a whole; to combine, mix, or unite.",
        "To modify or change by combination with some other thing or part; to mingle with something else.",
        "To compose; to constitute.",
        "To settle amicably; to adjust by agreement; to compromise; to discharge from obligation upon terms different from those which were stipulated; as, to compound a debt.",
        "To effect a composition; to come to terms of agreement; to agree; to settle by a compromise; -- usually followed by with before the person participating, and for before the thing compounded or the consideration.",
        "Composed of two or more elements, ingredients, parts; produced by the union of several ingredients, parts, or things; composite; as, a compound word.",
        "That which is compounded or formed by the union or mixture of elements ingredients, or parts; a combination of simples; a compound word; the result of composition.",
        "A union of two or more ingredients in definite proportions by weight, so combined as to form a distinct substance; as, water is a compound of oxygen and hydrogen."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Incapacitating him from successfully compounding a tale of this sort.",
        "We have the power of altering and compounding those images into all the varieties of picture.",
        "Only compound me with forgotten dust.",
        "His pomp and all what state compounds.",
        "I pray, my lords, let me compound this strife.",
        "Here's a fellow will help you to-morrow; . . . compound with him by the year.",
        "They were at last glad to compound for his bare commitment to the Tower.",
        "Cornwall compounded to furnish ten oxen after Michaelmas for thirty pounds.",
        "Compound for sins they are inclined to By damning those they have no mind to.",
        "Compound substances are made up of two or more simple substances.",
        "Rare compound of oddity, frolic, and fun.",
        "When the word compound."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. compouned, p. p. of compounen. See Compound, v. t.]"
}