{
    "word": "Convert",
    "definitions": [
        "To cause to turn; to turn.",
        "To change or turn from one state or condition to another; to alter in form, substance, or quality; to transform; to transmute; as, to convert water into ice.",
        "To change or turn from one belief or course to another, as from one religion to another or from one party or sect to another.",
        "To produce the spiritual change called conversion in (any one); to turn from a bad life to a good one; to change the heart and moral character of (any one) from the controlling power of sin to that of holiness.",
        "To apply to any use by a diversion from the proper or intended use; to appropriate dishonestly or illegally.",
        "To exchange for some specified equivalent; as, to convert goods into money.",
        "To change (one proposition) into another, so that what was the subject of the first becomes the predicate of the second.",
        "To turn into another language; to translate.",
        "To be turned or changed in character or direction; to undergo a change, physically or morally.",
        "A person who is converted from one opinion or practice to another; a person who is won over to, or heartily embraces, a creed, religious system, or party, in which he has not previously believed; especially, one who turns from the controlling power of sin to that of holiness, or from unbelief to Christianity.",
        "A lay friar or brother, permitted to enter a monastery for the service of the house, but without orders, and not allowed to sing in the choir."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "O, which way shall I first convert myself?",
        "If the whole atmosphere were converted into water.",
        "That still lessens The sorrow, and converts it nigh to joy.",
        "No attempt was made to convert the Moslems.",
        "He which converteth the sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death.",
        "When a bystander took a coin to get it changed, and converted it, [it was] held no larceny.",
        "Which story . . . Catullus more elegantly converted.",
        "If Nebo had had the preaching that thou hast, they [the Neboites] would have converted.",
        "A red dust which converth into worms.",
        "The public hope And eye to thee converting.",
        "The Jesuits did not persuade the converts to lay aside the use of images."
    ],
    "etymology": "[L. convertere, -versum; con- + vertere to turn: cf. F. convertir. See Verse.]"
}