{
    "word": "Cool",
    "definitions": [
        "Moderately cold; between warm and cold; lacking in warmth; producing or promoting coolness.",
        "Not ardent, warm, fond, or passionate; not hasty; deliberate; exercising self-control; self-possessed; dispassionate; indifferent; as, a cool lover; a cool debater.",
        "Not retaining heat; light; as, a cool dress.",
        "Manifesting coldness or dislike; chilling; apathetic; as, a cool manner.",
        "Quietly impudent; negligent of propriety in matters of minor importance, either ignorantly or willfully; presuming and selfish; audacious; as, cool behavior.",
        "Applied facetiously, in a vague sense, to a sum of money, commonly as if to give emphasis to the largeness of the amount.",
        "A moderate state of cold; coolness; -- said of the temperature of the air between hot and cold; as, the cool of the day; the cool of the morning or evening.",
        "To make cool or cold; to reduce the temperature of; as, ice cools water.",
        "To moderate the heat or excitement of; to allay, as passion of any kind; to calm; to moderate.",
        "To become less hot; to lose heat.",
        "To lose the heat of excitement or passion; to become more moderate."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Fanned with cool winds.",
        "For a patriot, too cool.",
        "Its cool stare of familiarity was intolerable.",
        "He had lost a cool hundred.",
        "Leaving a cool thousand to Mr. Matthew Pocket.",
        "Send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue.",
        "We have reason to cool our raging motions, our carnal stings, our unbitted lusts.",
        "I saw a smith stand with his hammer, thus, the whilst his iron did on the anvil cool.",
        "I will not give myself liberty to think, lest I should cool."
    ],
    "etymology": "[AS. c; akin to D. koel, G. k, OHG. chouli, Dan. k, Sw. kylig, also to AS. calan to be cold, Icel. kala. See Cold, and cf. Chill.]"
}