{
    "word": "Corn",
    "definitions": [
        "A single seed of certain plants, as wheat, rye, barley, and maize; a grain.",
        "The various farinaceous grains of the cereal grasses used for food, as wheat, rye, barley, maize, oats.",
        "a tall cereal plant (Zea mays) bearing its seeds as large kernels in multiple rows on the surface of a hard cylindrical ear, the core of which (the cob) is not edible; -- also called Indian corn and, in technical literature, maize. There are several kinds; as, yellow corn, which grows chiefly in the Northern States, and is yellow when ripe; white corn or southern corn, which grows to a great height, and has long white kernels; sweet corn, comprising a number of sweet and tender varieties, grown chiefly at the North, some of which have kernels that wrinkle when ripe and dry; pop corn, any small variety, used for popping. Corn seeds may be cooked while on the ear and eaten directly, or may be stripped from the ear and cooked subsequently. The term Indian corn is often used to refer to a primitive type of corn having kernels of varied color borne on the same cob; it is used for decoration, especially in the fall.",
        "The plants which produce corn, when growing in the field; the stalks and ears, or the stalks, ears, and seeds, after reaping and before thrashing.",
        "A small, hard particle; a grain.",
        "To preserve and season with salt in grains; to sprinkle with salt; to cure by salting; now, specifically, to salt slightly in brine or otherwise; as, to corn beef; to corn a tongue.",
        "To form into small grains; to granulate; as, to corn gunpowder.",
        "To feed with corn or (in Sctland) oats; as, to corn horses.",
        "To render intoxicated; as, ale strong enough to corn one."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Welcome, gentlemen! Ladies that have their toes Unplagued with corns, will have a bout with you.",
        "In one night, ere glimpse of morn, His shadowy flail had thrashed the corn."
    ],
    "etymology": "[AS. corn; akin to OS. korn, D. koren, G., Dan., Sw., & Icel. korn, Goth. ka, L. granum, Russ. zerno. Cf. Grain, Kernel.]"
}