{
    "word": "Couch",
    "definitions": [
        "To lay upon a bed or other resting place.",
        "To arrange or dispose as in a bed; -- sometimes followed by the reflexive pronoun.",
        "To lay or deposit in a bed or layer; to bed.",
        "To transfer (as sheets of partly dried pulp) from the wire cloth mold to a felt blanket, for further drying.",
        "To conceal; to include or involve darkly.",
        "To arrange; to place; to inlay.",
        "To put into some form of language; to express; to phrase; -- used with in and under.",
        "To treat by pushing down or displacing the opaque lens with a needle; as, to couch a cataract.",
        "To lie down or recline, as on a bed or other place of rest; to repose; to lie.",
        "To lie down for concealment; to hide; to be concealed; to be included or involved darkly.",
        "To bend the body, as in reverence, pain, labor, etc.; to stoop; to crouch.",
        "A bed or place for repose or sleep; particularly, in the United States, a lounge.",
        "Any place for repose, as the lair of a beast, etc.",
        "A mass of steeped barley spread upon a floor to germinate, in malting; or the floor occupied by the barley; as, couch of malt.",
        "A preliminary layer, as of color, size, etc."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Where unbruised youth, with unstuffed brain, Does couch his limbs, there golden sleep doth reign.",
        "The waters couch themselves as may be to the center of this globe, in a spherical convexity.",
        "It is at this day in use at Gaza, to couch potsherds, or vessels of earth, in their walls.",
        "There is all this, and more, that lies naturally couched under this allegory.",
        "A well-couched invective.",
        "I had received a letter from Flora couched in rather cool terms.",
        "He stooped his head, and couched his spear, And spurred his steed to full career.",
        "Where souls do couch on flowers, we 'll hand in hand.",
        "If I court moe women, you 'll couch with moe men.",
        "We 'll couch in the castle ditch, till we see the light of our fairies.",
        "The half-hidden, hallf-revealed wonders, that yet couch beneath the words of the Scripture.",
        "An aged squire That seemed to couch under his shield three-square.",
        "Gentle sleep . . . why liest thou with the vile In loathsome beds, and leavest the kingly couch?",
        "Like one that wraps the drapery of his couch About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. coucher to lay down, lie down, OF. colchier, fr. L. collocare to lay, put, place; col- + locare to place, fr. locus place. See Locus.]"
}