{
    "word": "Counter",
    "definitions": [
        "A piece of metal, ivory, wood, or bone, used in reckoning, in keeping account of games, etc.",
        "Money; coin; -- used in contempt.",
        "A prison; either of two prisons formerly in London.",
        "A telltale; a contrivance attached to an engine, printing press, or other machine, for the purpose of counting the revolutions or the pulsations.",
        "A table or board on which money is counted and over which business is transacted; a long, narrow table or bench, on which goods are laid for examination by purchasers, or on which they are weighed or measured.",
        "Contrary; in opposition; in an opposite direction; contrariwise; -- used chiefly with run or go.",
        "In the wrong way; contrary to the right course; as, a hound that runs counter.",
        "At or against the front or face.",
        "Contrary; opposite; contrasted; opposed; adverse; antagonistic; as, a counter current; a counter revolution; a counter poison; a counter agent; counter fugue.",
        "The after part of a vessel's body, from the water line to the stern, -- below and somewhat forward of the stern proper.",
        "Same as Contra. Formerly used to designate any under part which served for contrast to a principal part, but now used as equivalent to counter tenor.",
        "The breast, or that part of a horse between the shoulders and under the neck.",
        "The back leather or heel part of a boot.",
        "An encounter.",
        "To return a blow while receiving one, as in boxing."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The old gods of our own race whose names . . . serve as counters reckon the days of the week.",
        "What comes the wool to? . . . I can not do it without counters.",
        "To lock such rascal counters from his friends.",
        "Anne Aysavugh . . . imprisoned in the Counter.",
        "Running counter to all the rules of virtue.",
        "This is counter, you false Danish dogs!",
        "Which [darts] they never throw counter, but at the back of the flier.",
        "With kindly counter under mimic shade.",
        "His left hand countered provokingly."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. countour, OF. contouer, comptouer, F. comptoir, LL. computatorium, prop., a computing place, place of accounts, fr. L. computare. See Count, v. t.]"
}