{
    "word": "Count",
    "definitions": [
        "To tell or name one by one, or by groups, for the purpose of ascertaining the whole number of units in a collection; to number; to enumerate; to compute; to reckon.",
        "To place to an account; to ascribe or impute; to consider or esteem as belonging.",
        "To esteem; to account; to reckon; to think, judge, or consider.",
        "To number or be counted; to possess value or carry weight; hence, to increase or add to the strength or influence of some party or interest; as, every vote counts; accidents count for nothing.",
        "To reckon; to rely; to depend; -- with on or upon.",
        "To take account or note; -- with",
        "To plead orally; to argue a matter in court; to recite a count.",
        "The act of numbering; reckoning; also, the number ascertained by counting.",
        "An object of interest or account; value; estimation.",
        "A formal statement of the plaintiff's case in court; in a more technical and correct sense, a particular allegation or charge in a declaration or indictment, separately setting forth the cause of action or prosecution.",
        "A nobleman on the continent of Europe, equal in rank to an English earl."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Who can count the dust of Jacob?",
        "In a journey of forty miles, Avaux counted only three miserable cabins.",
        "Abracham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness.",
        "I count myself in nothing else so happy As in a soul remembering my good friends.",
        "This excellent man . . . counted among the best and wisest of English statesmen.",
        "He was brewer to the palace; and it was apprehended that the government counted on his voice.",
        "I think it a great error to count upon the genius of a nation as a standing argument in all ages.",
        "Of blessed saints for to increase the count.",
        "By this count, I shall be much in years."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OF. conter, and later (etymological spelling) compter, in modern French thus distinguished; conter to relate (cf. Recount, Account), compter to count; fr. L. computuare to reckon, compute; com- + putare to reckon, settle, order, prune, orig., to clean. See Pure, and cf. Compute.]"
}