{
    "word": "Counterfeit",
    "definitions": [
        "Representing by imitation or likeness; having a resemblance to something else; portrayed.",
        "Fabricated in imitation of something else, with a view to defraud by passing the false copy for genuine or original; as, counterfeit antiques; counterfeit coin.",
        "Assuming the appearance of something; false; spurious; deceitful; hypocritical; as, a counterfeit philanthropist.",
        "That which resembles or is like another thing; a likeness; a portrait; a counterpart.",
        "That which is made in imitation of something, with a view to deceive by passing the false for the true; as, the bank note was a counterfeit.",
        "One who pretends to be what he is not; one who personates another; an impostor; a cheat.",
        "To imitate, or put on a semblance of; to mimic; as, to counterfeit the voice of another person.",
        "To imitate with a view to deceiving, by passing the copy for that which is original or genuine; to forge; as, to counterfeit the signature of another, coins, notes, etc.",
        "To carry on a deception; to dissemble; to feign; to pretend.",
        "To make counterfeits."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Look here upon this picture, and on this- The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.",
        "Thou drawest a counterfeit Best in all Athens.",
        "Even Nature's self envied the same, And grudged to see the counterfeit should shame The thing itself.",
        "Never call a true piece of gold a counterfeit.",
        "Some of these counterfeits are fabricated with such exquisite taste and skill, that it is the achievement of criticism to distinguish them from originals.",
        "I fear thou art another counterfeit; And yet, in faith, thou bear'st thee like a king.",
        "Full well they laughed with counterfeited glee At all his jokes, for many a joke had he.",
        "The knave counterfeits well; a good knave."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. contrefait, p. p. of contrefaire to counterfeit; contre (L. contra) + faire to make, fr. L. facere. See Counter, adv., and Fact.]"
}