{
    "word": "Cover",
    "definitions": [
        "To overspread the surface of (one thing) with another; as, to cover wood with paint or lacquer; to cover a table with a cloth.",
        "To envelop; to clothe, as with a mantle or cloak.",
        "To invest (one's self with something); to bring upon (one's self); as, he covered himself with glory.",
        "To hide sight; to conceal; to cloak; as, the enemy were covered from our sight by the woods.",
        "To brood or sit on; to incubate.",
        "To shelter, as from evil or danger; to protect; to defend; as, the cavalry covered the retreat.",
        "To remove from remembrance; to put away; to remit.",
        "To extend over; to be sufficient for; to comprehend, include, or embrace; to account for or solve; to counterbalance; as, a mortgage which fully covers a sum loaned on it; a law which covers all possible cases of a crime; receipts than do not cover expenses.",
        "To put the usual covering or headdress on.",
        "To copulate with (a female); to serve; as, a horse covers a mare; -- said of the male.",
        "Anything which is laid, set, or spread, upon, about, or over, another thing; an envelope; a lid; as, the cover of a book.",
        "Anything which veils or conceals; a screen; disguise; a cloak.",
        "Shelter; protection; as, the troops fought under cover of the batteries; the woods afforded a good cover.",
        "The woods, underbrush, etc., which shelter and conceal game; covert; as, to beat a cover; to ride to cover.",
        "The lap of a slide valve.",
        "A tablecloth, and the other table furniture; esp., the table furniture for the use of one person at a meal; as, covers were laid for fifty guests.",
        "To spread a table for a meal; to prepare a banquet."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "And with the majesty of darkness round Covers his throne.",
        "All that beauty than doth cover thee.",
        "The powers that covered themselves with everlasting infamy by the partition of Poland.",
        "A cloud covered the mount.",
        "In vain shou striv'st to cover shame with shame.",
        "While the hen is covering her eggs, the male . . . diverts her with his songs.",
        "The waters returned and covered the chariots and the horsemen.",
        "His calm and blameless life Does with substantial blessedness abound, And the soft wings of peace cover him round.",
        "Cover thy head . . . ; nay, prithee, be covered.",
        "A handsome cover for imperfections.",
        "Being compelled to lodge in the field . . . whilst his army was under cover, they might be forced to retire.",
        "Letters . . . dispatched under cover to her ladyship."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OF. covrir, F. couvrir, fr. L. cooperire; co- + operire to cover; probably fr. ob towards, over + the root appearing in aperire to open. Cf. Aperient, Overt, Curfew.]"
}