{
    "word": "Crown",
    "definitions": [
        "p. p. of Crow.",
        "A wreath or garland, or any ornamental fillet encircling the head, especially as a reward of victory or mark of honorable distinction; hence, anything given on account of, or obtained by, faithful or successful effort; a reward.",
        "A royal headdress or cap of sovereignty, worn by emperors, kings, princes, etc.",
        "The person entitled to wear a regal or imperial crown; the sovereign; -- with the definite article.",
        "Imperial or regal power or dominion; sovereignty.",
        "Anything which imparts beauty, splendor, honor, dignity, or finish.",
        "Highest state; acme; consummation; perfection.",
        "The topmost part of anything; the summit.",
        "The topmost part of the head (see Illust. of Bird.); that part of the head from which the hair descends toward the sides and back; also, the head or brain.",
        "The part of a hat above the brim.",
        "The part of a tooth which projects above the gum; also, the top or grinding surface of a tooth.",
        "The vertex or top of an arch; -- applied generally to about one third of the curve, but in a pointed arch to the apex only.",
        "Same as Corona.",
        "That part of an anchor where the arms are joined to the shank.",
        "The rounding, or rounded part, of the deck from a level line.",
        "The bights formed by the several turns of a cable.",
        "The upper range of facets in a rose diamond.",
        "The dome of a furnace.",
        "The area inclosed between two concentric perimeters.",
        "A round spot shaved clean on the top of the head, as a mark of the clerical state; the tonsure.",
        "A size of writing paper. See under Paper.",
        "A coin stamped with the image of a crown; hence,a denomination of money; as, the English crown, a silver coin of the value of five shillings sterling, or a little more than $1.20; the Danish or Norwegian crown, a money of account, etc., worth nearly twenty-seven cents.",
        "An ornaments or decoration representing a crown; as, the paper is stamped with a crown.",
        "To cover, decorate, or invest with a crown; hence, to invest with royal dignity and power.",
        "To bestow something upon as a mark of honor, dignity, or recompense; to adorn; to dignify.",
        "To form the topmost or finishing part of; to complete; to consummate; to perfect.",
        "To cause to round upward; to make anything higher at the middle than at the edges, as the face of a machine pulley.",
        "To effect a lodgment upon, as upon the crest of the glacis, or the summit of the breach."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "They do it to obtain a corruptible crown; but we an incorruptible.",
        "Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life.",
        "Parliament may be dissolved by the demise of the crown.",
        "Large arrears of pay were due to the civil and military servants of the crown.",
        "There is a power behind the crown greater than the crown itself.",
        "The hoary head is a crown of glory, if it be found in the way of righteousness.",
        "A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband.",
        "Mutual love, the crown of all our bliss.",
        "The steepy crown of the bare mountains.",
        "From toe to crown he'll fill our skin with pinches.",
        "Twenty things which I set down: This done, I twenty more-had in my crown.",
        "Her who fairest does appear, Crown her queen of all the year.",
        "Crown him, and say,",
        "Thou . . . hast crowned him with glory and honor.",
        "Amidst the grove that crowns yon tufted hill.",
        "One day shall crown the alliance.",
        "To crown the whole, came a proposition."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. corone, coroun, crune, croun, OF. corone, corune, F. couronne, fr. L. corona crown, wreath; akin to Gr. korw`nh anything curved, crown; cf. also L. curvus curved, E. curve, curb, Gael. cruinn round, W. crwn. Cf. Cornice, Corona, Coroner, Coronet.]"
}