{
    "word": "Cry",
    "definitions": [
        "To utter lamentations; to lament audibly; to express pain, grief, or distress, by weeping and sobbing; to shed tears; to bawl, as a child.",
        "To utter inarticulate sounds, as animals.",
        "To utter loudly; to call out; to shout; to sound abroad; to declare publicly.",
        "To cause to do something, or bring to some state, by crying or weeping; as, to cry one's self to sleep.",
        "To make oral and public proclamation of; to declare publicly; to notify or advertise by outcry, especially things lost or found, goods to be sold, ets.; as, to cry goods, etc.",
        "to publish the banns of, as for marriage.",
        "A loud utterance; especially, the inarticulate sound produced by one of the lower animals; as, the cry of hounds; the cry of wolves.",
        "Outcry; clamor; tumult; popular demand.",
        "Any expression of grief, distress, etc., accompanied with tears or sobs; a loud sound, uttered in lamentation.",
        "Loud expression of triumph or wonder or of popular acclamation or favor.",
        "Importunate supplication.",
        "Public advertisement by outcry; proclamation, as by hawkers of their wares.",
        "Common report; fame.",
        "A word or phrase caught up by a party or faction and repeated for effect; as, the party cry of the Tories.",
        "A pack of hounds.",
        "A pack or company of persons; -- in contempt.",
        "The crackling noise made by block tin when it is bent back and forth."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "And about the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice.",
        "Clapping their hands, and crying with loud voice.",
        "Hear the voice of my supplications when I cry unto thee.",
        "The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord.",
        "Some cried after him to return.",
        "Ye shall cry for sorrow of heart.",
        "I could find it in my heart to disgrace my man's apparel and to cry like a woman.",
        "The young ravens which cry.",
        "In a cowslip's bell I lie There I couch when owls do cry.",
        "All, all, cry shame against ye, yet I 'll speak.",
        "The man . . . ran on,crying, Life! life! Eternal life!",
        "Love is lost, and thus she cries him.",
        "I should not be surprised if they were cried in church next Sabbath.",
        "Men of dissolute lives cry down religion, because they would not be under the restraints of it.",
        "Again that cry was found to have been as unreasonable as ever.",
        "There shall be a great cry throughout all the land.",
        "An infant crying in the night, An infant crying for the light; And with no language but a cry.",
        "The cry went once on thee.",
        "O, the most piteous cry of the poor souls.",
        "The street cries of London.",
        "The cry goes that you shall marry her.",
        "All now depends upon a good cry.",
        "A cry more tunable Was never hollaed to, nor cheered with horn.",
        "Would not this . . . get me a fellowship in a cry of players?"
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. cri, fr. crier to cry. See Cry, v. i. ]"
}