{
    "word": "Cut",
    "definitions": [
        "To sever and cause to fall for the purpose of gathering; to hew; to mow or reap.",
        "To sever and remove by cutting; to cut off; to dock; as, to cut the hair; to cut the nails.",
        "To castrate or geld; as, to cut a horse.",
        "To form or shape by cutting; to make by incision, hewing, etc.; to carve; to hew out.",
        "To wound or hurt deeply the sensibilities of; to pierce; to lacerate; as, sarcasm cuts to the quick.",
        "To intersect; to cross; as, one line cuts another at right angles.",
        "To refuse to recognize; to ignore; as, to cut a person in the street; to cut one's acquaintance.",
        "To absent one's self from; as, to cut an appointment, a recitation. etc.",
        "To deflect (a bowled ball) to the off, with a chopping movement of the bat.",
        "To drive (an object ball) to either side by hitting it fine on the other side with the cue ball or another object ball.",
        "To strike (a ball) with the racket inclined or struck across the ball so as to put a certain spin on the ball.",
        "To drive (a ball) to one side by hitting with another ball.",
        "To admit of incision or severance; to yield to a cutting instrument.",
        "To perform the operation of dividing, severing, incising, intersecting, etc.; to use a cutting instrument.",
        "To make a stroke with a whip.",
        "To interfere, as a horse.",
        "To move or make off quickly.",
        "To divide a pack of cards into two portion to decide the deal or trump, or to change the order of the cards to be dealt.",
        "An opening made with an edged instrument; a cleft; a gash; a slash; a wound made by cutting; as, a sword cut.",
        "A stroke or blow or cutting motion with an edged instrument; a stroke or blow with a whip.",
        "That which wounds the feelings, as a harsh remark or criticism, or a sarcasm; personal discourtesy, as neglecting to recognize an acquaintance when meeting him; a slight.",
        "A notch, passage, or channel made by cutting or digging; a furrow; a groove; as, a cut for a railroad.",
        "The surface left by a cut; as, a smooth or clear cut.",
        "A portion severed or cut off; a division; as, a cut of beef; a cut of timber.",
        "An engraved block or plate; the impression from such an engraving; as, a book illustrated with fine cuts.",
        "The act of dividing a pack cards.",
        "The right to divide; as, whose cut is it?",
        "Manner in which a thing is cut or formed; shape; style; fashion; as, the cut of a garment.",
        "A common work horse; a gelding.",
        "The failure of a college officer or student to be present at any appointed exercise.",
        "A skein of yarn.",
        "A slanting stroke causing the ball to spin and bound irregularly; also, the spin so given to the ball.",
        "A stroke on the off side between point and the wicket; also, one who plays this stroke.",
        "Formed or shaped as by cutting; carved.",
        "Overcome by liquor; tipsy."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "You must cut this flesh from off his breast.",
        "Before the whistling winds the vessels fly, With rapid swiftness cut the liquid way.",
        "Thy servants can skill to cut timer.",
        "Why should a man. whose blood is warm within, Sit like his grandsire cut in alabaster?",
        "Loopholes cut through thickest shade.",
        "The man was cut to the heart.",
        "An English tradesman is always solicitous to cut the shop whenever he can do so with impunity.",
        "I would to God, . . . The king had cut off my brother's.",
        "Panels of white wood that cuts like cheese.",
        "He saved the lives of thousands by his manner of cutting for the stone.",
        "Rip called him by name, but the cur snarled, snapped his teeth, and passed on. This was an unkind cut indeed.",
        "This great cut or ditch Secostris . . . purposed to have made a great deal wider and deeper.",
        "It should be understood, moreover, . . . that the group are not arbitrary cuts, but natural groups or types.",
        "With eyes severe and beard of formal cut.",
        "He'll buy me a cut, forth for to ride.",
        "Now draweth cut . . . The which that hath the shortest shall begin."
    ],
    "etymology": null
}