{
    "word": "Cycle",
    "definitions": [
        "An imaginary circle or orbit in the heavens; one of the celestial spheres.",
        "An interval of time in which a certain succession of events or phenomena is completed, and then returns again and again, uniformly and continually in the same order; a periodical space of time marked by the recurrence of something peculiar; as, the cycle of the seasons, or of the year.",
        "An age; a long period of time.",
        "An orderly list for a given time; a calendar.",
        "The circle of subjects connected with the exploits of the hero or heroes of some particular period which have served as a popular theme for poetry, as the legend of Arthur and the knights of the Round Table, and that of Charlemagne and his paladins.",
        "One entire round in a circle or a spire; as, a cycle or set of leaves.",
        "A bicycle or tricycle, or other light velocipede.",
        "A motorcycle.",
        "A series of operations in which heat is imparted to (or taken away from) a working substance which by its expansion gives up a part of its internal energy in the form of mechanical work (or being compressed increases its internal energy) and is again brought back to its original state.",
        "A complete positive and negative, or forward and reverse, action of any periodic process, such as a vibration, an electric field oscillation, or a current alternation; one period.",
        "A complete positive and negative wave of an alternating current. The number of cycles (per second) is a measure of the frequency of an alternating current.",
        "To pass through a cycle{2} of changes; to recur in cycles.",
        "To ride a bicycle, tricycle, or other form of cycle.",
        "To cause to pass through a cycle{2}."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Wages . . . bear a full proportion . . . to the medium of provision during the last bad cycle of twenty years.",
        "Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of Cathay.",
        "We . . . present our gardeners with a complete cycle of what is requisite to be done throughout every month of the year."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. ycle, LL. cyclus, fr. Gr. ky`klos ring or circle, cycle; akin to Skr. cakra wheel, circle. See Wheel.]"
}