{
    "word": "Decline",
    "definitions": [
        "To bend, or lean downward; to take a downward direction; to bend over or hang down, as from weakness, weariness, despondency, etc.; to condescend.",
        "To tend or draw towards a close, decay, or extinction; to tend to a less perfect state; to become diminished or impaired; to fail; to sink; to diminish; to lessen; as, the day declines; virtue declines; religion declines; business declines.",
        "To turn or bend aside; to deviate; to stray; to withdraw; as, a line that declines from straightness; conduct that declines from sound morals.",
        "To turn away; to shun; to refuse; -- the opposite of accept or consent; as, he declined, upon principle.",
        "To bend downward; to bring down; to depress; to cause to bend, or fall.",
        "To cause to decrease or diminish.",
        "To put or turn aside; to turn off or away from; to refuse to undertake or comply with; reject; to shun; to avoid; as, to decline an offer; to decline a contest; he declined any participation with them.",
        "To inflect, or rehearse in order the changes of grammatical form of; as, to decline a noun or an adjective.",
        "To run through from first to last; to repeat like a schoolboy declining a noun.",
        "A falling off; a tendency to a worse state; diminution or decay; deterioration; also, the period when a thing is tending toward extinction or a less perfect state; as, the decline of life; the decline of strength; the decline of virtue and religion.",
        "That period of a disorder or paroxysm when the symptoms begin to abate in violence; as, the decline of a fever.",
        "A gradual sinking and wasting away of the physical faculties; any wasting disease, esp. pulmonary consumption; as, to die of a decline."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "He . . . would decline even to the lowest of his family.",
        "Disdaining to decline, Slowly he falls, amidst triumphant cries.",
        "The ground at length became broken and declined rapidly.",
        "That empire must decline Whose chief support and sinews are of coin.",
        "And presume to know . . . Who thrives, and who declines.",
        "Yet do I not decline from thy testimonies.",
        "In melancholy deep, with head declined.",
        "And now fair Phoebus gan decline in haste His weary wagon to the western vale.",
        "He knoweth his error, but will not seek to decline it.",
        "Could I Decline this dreadful hour?",
        "After the first declining of a noun and a verb.",
        "Their fathers lived in the decline of literature."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. declinen to bend down, lower, sink, decline (a noun), F. d to decline, refuse, fr. L. declinare to turn aside, inflect (a part of speech), avoid; de- + clinare to incline; akin to E. lean. See Lean, v. i.]"
}