{
    "word": "Degree",
    "definitions": [
        "A step, stair, or staircase.",
        "One of a series of progressive steps upward or downward, in quality, rank, acquirement, and the like; a stage in progression; grade; gradation; as, degrees of vice and virtue; to advance by slow degrees; degree of comparison.",
        "The point or step of progression to which a person has arrived; rank or station in life; position.",
        "Measure of advancement; quality; extent; as, tastes differ in kind as well as in degree.",
        "Grade or rank to which scholars are admitted by a college or university, in recognition of their attainments; also, (informal) the diploma provided by an educational institution attesting to the achievement of that rank; as, the degree of bachelor of arts, master, doctor, etc.; to hang one's degrees on the office wall.",
        "A certain distance or remove in the line of descent, determining the proximity of blood; one remove in the chain of relationship; as, a relation in the third or fourth degree.",
        "Three figures taken together in numeration; thus, 140 is one degree, 222,140 two degrees.",
        "State as indicated by sum of exponents; more particularly, the degree of a term is indicated by the sum of the exponents of its literal factors; thus, a2b3c is a term of the sixth degree. The degree of a power, or radical, is denoted by its index, that of an equation by the greatest sum of the exponents of the unknown quantities in any term; thus, ax4 + bx2 = c, and mx2y2 + nyx = p, are both equations of the fourth degree.",
        "A 360th part of the circumference of a circle, which part is taken as the principal unit of measure for arcs and angles. The degree is divided into 60 minutes and the minute into 60 seconds.",
        "A division, space, or interval, marked on a mathematical or other instrument, as on a thermometer.",
        "A line or space of the staff."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "By ladders, or else by degree.",
        "The degree of excellence which proclaims genius, is different in different times and different places.",
        "The youth attained his bachelor's degree, and left the university.",
        "In the 11th century an opinion began to gain ground in Italy, that third cousins might marry, being in the seventh degree according to the civil law.",
        "It has been said that Scotsmen . . . are . . . grave to a degree on occasions when races more favored by nature are gladsome to excess."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. degr, OF. degret, fr. LL. degradare. See Degrade.]"
}