{
    "word": "Demand",
    "definitions": [
        "To ask or call for with authority; to claim or seek from, as by authority or right; to claim, as something due; to call for urgently or peremptorily; as, to demand a debt; to demand obedience.",
        "To inquire authoritatively or earnestly; to ask, esp. in a peremptory manner; to question.",
        "To require as necessary or useful; to be in urgent need of; hence, to call for; as, the case demands care.",
        "To call into court; to summon.",
        "To make a demand; to inquire.",
        "The act of demanding; an asking with authority; a peremptory urging of a claim; a claiming or challenging as due; requisition; as, the demand of a creditor; a note payable on demand.",
        "Earnest inquiry; question; query.",
        "A diligent seeking or search; manifested want; desire to possess; request; as, a demand for certain goods; a person's company is in great demand.",
        "That which one demands or has a right to demand; thing claimed as due; claim; as, demands on an estate.",
        "The asking or seeking for what is due or claimed as due.",
        "The right or title in virtue of which anything may be claimed; as, to hold a demand against a person.",
        "A thing or amount claimed to be due."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "This, in our foresaid holy father's name, Pope Innocent, I do demand of thee.",
        "I did demand what news from Shrewsbury.",
        "The soldiers likewise demanded of him, saying, And what shall we do?",
        "The demand [is] by the word of the holy ones.",
        "He that has confidence to turn his wishes into demands will be but a little way from thinking he ought to obtain them.",
        "In 1678 came forth a second edition [Pilgrim's Progress] with additions; and then the demand became immense."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. demander, LL. demandare to demand, summon, send word, fr. L. demandare to give in charge, intrust; de- + mandare to commit to one's charge, commission, order, command. Cf. Mandate, Commend.]"
}