{
    "word": "Design",
    "definitions": [
        "To draw preliminary outline or main features of; to sketch for a pattern or model; to delineate; to trace out; to draw.",
        "To mark out and exhibit; to designate; to indicate; to show; to point out; to appoint.",
        "To create or produce, as a work of art; to form a plan or scheme of; to form in idea; to invent; to project; to lay out in the mind; as, a man designs an essay, a poem, a statue, or a cathedral.",
        "To intend or purpose; -- usually with for before the remote object, but sometimes with to.",
        "To form a design or designs; to plan.",
        "A preliminary sketch; an outline or pattern of the main features of something to be executed, as of a picture, a building, or a decoration; a delineation; a plan.",
        "A plan or scheme formed in the mind of something to be done; preliminary conception; idea intended to be expressed in a visible form or carried into action; intention; purpose; -- often used in a bad sense for evil intention or purpose; scheme; plot.",
        "Specifically, intention or purpose as revealed or inferred from the adaptation of means to an end; as, the argument from design.",
        "The realization of an inventive or decorative plan; esp., a work of decorative art considered as a new creation; conception or plan shown in completed work; as, this carved panel is a fine design, or of a fine design.",
        "The invention and conduct of the subject; the disposition of every part, and the general order of the whole."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "We shall see Justice design the victor's chivalry.",
        "Meet me to-morrow where the master And this fraternity shall design.",
        "Ask of politicians the end for which laws were originally designed.",
        "He was designed to the study of the law.",
        "The vast design and purpos Tennyson. [1913 Webster]",
        "The leaders of that assembly who withstood the designs of a besotted woman.",
        "A . . . settled design upon another man's life.",
        "How little he could guess the secret designs of the court!",
        "Is he a prudent man . . . that lays designs only for a day, without any prospect to the remaining part of his life?",
        "I wish others the same intention, and greater successes.",
        "It is the purpose that makes strong the vow."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. d to designate, cf. F. dessiner to draw, dessin drawing, dessein a plan or scheme; all, ultimately, from L. designare to designate; de- + signare to mark, mark out, signum mark, sign. See Sign, and cf. Design, n., Designate.]"
}