{
    "word": "Dip",
    "definitions": [
        "To plunge or immerse; especially, to put for a moment into a liquid; to insert into a fluid and withdraw again.",
        "To immerse for baptism; to baptize by immersion.",
        "To wet, as if by immersing; to moisten.",
        "To plunge or engage thoroughly in any affair.",
        "To take out, by dipping a dipper, ladle, or other receptacle, into a fluid and removing a part; -- often with out; as, to dip water from a boiler; to dip out water.",
        "To engage as a pledge; to mortgage.",
        "To immerse one's self; to become plunged in a liquid; to sink.",
        "To perform the action of plunging some receptacle, as a dipper, ladle. etc.; into a liquid or a soft substance and removing a part.",
        "To pierce; to penetrate; -- followed by in or into.",
        "To enter slightly or cursorily; to engage one's self desultorily or by the way; to partake limitedly; -- followed by in or into.",
        "To incline downward from the plane of the horizon; as, strata of rock dip.",
        "To dip snuff.",
        "The action of dipping or plunging for a moment into a liquid.",
        "Inclination downward; direction below a horizontal line; slope; pitch.",
        "a hollow or depression in a surface, especially in the ground.",
        "A liquid, as a sauce or gravy, served at table with a ladle or spoon.",
        "A dipped candle.",
        "A gymnastic exercise on the parallel bars in which the performer, resting on his hands, lets his arms bend and his body sink until his chin is level with the bars, and then raises himself by straightening his arms.",
        "In the turpentine industry, the viscid exudation, which is dipped out from incisions in the trees; as, virgin dip (the runnings of the first year), yellow dip (the runnings of subsequent years).",
        "a liquid, in which objects are soaked by dipping; e.g., a parasiticide or insecticide solution into which animals are dipped (see sheep-dip).",
        "a sauce into which foods are dipped to enhance the flavor; e. g., an onion dip made from sour cream and dried onions, into which potato chips are dipped.",
        "a pickpocket."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The priest shall dip his finger in the blood.",
        "[Wat'ry fowl] now dip their pinions in the briny deep.",
        "While the prime swallow dips his wing.",
        "A cold shuddering dew Dips me all o'er.",
        "He was . . . dipt in the rebellion of the Commons.",
        "Live on the use and never dip thy lands.",
        "The sun's rim dips; the stars rush out.",
        "Whoever dips too deep will find death in the pot.",
        "When I dipt into the future."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. dippen, duppen, AS. dyppan; akin to Dan. dyppe, Sw. doppa, and to AS. d to baptize, OS. d, D. doopen, G. taufen, Sw. d, Goth. daupjan, Lith. dubus deep, hollow, OSlav. dupl hollow, and to E. dive. Cf. Deep, Dive.]"
}