{
    "word": "Direct",
    "definitions": [
        "Straight; not crooked, oblique, or circuitous; leading by the short or shortest way to a point or end; as, a direct line; direct means.",
        "Straightforward; not of crooked ways, or swerving from truth and openness; sincere; outspoken.",
        "Immediate; express; plain; unambiguous.",
        "In the line of descent; not collateral; as, a descendant in the direct line.",
        "In the direction of the general planetary motion, or from west to east; in the order of the signs; not retrograde; -- said of the motion of a celestial body.",
        "Pertaining to, or effected immediately by, action of the people through their votes instead of through one or more representatives or delegates; as, direct nomination, direct legislation.",
        "To arrange in a direct or straight line, as against a mark, or towards a goal; to point; to aim; as, to direct an arrow or a piece of ordnance.",
        "To point out or show to (any one), as the direct or right course or way; to guide, as by pointing out the way; as, he directed me to the left-hand road.",
        "To determine the direction or course of; to cause to go on in a particular manner; to order in the way to a certain end; to regulate; to govern; as, to direct the affairs of a nation or the movements of an army.",
        "To point out to with authority; to instruct as a superior; to order; as, he directed them to go.",
        "To put a direction or address upon; to mark with the name and residence of the person to whom anything is sent; to superscribe; as, to direct a letter.",
        "To give direction; to point out a course; to act as guide.",
        "A character, thus [ Moore (Encyc. of Music). [1913 Webster]"
    ],
    "examples": [
        "What is direct to, what slides by, the question.",
        "Be even and direct with me.",
        "He nowhere, that I know, says it in direct words.",
        "A direct and avowed interference with elections.",
        "The Lord direct your into the love of God.",
        "The next points to which I will direct your attention.",
        "I will direct their work in truth.",
        "I 'll first direct my men what they shall do.",
        "Wisdom is profitable to direct."
    ],
    "etymology": "[L. directus, p. p. of dirigere to direct: cf. F. direct. See Dress, and cf. Dirge.]"
}