{
    "word": "Discourse",
    "definitions": [
        "The power of the mind to reason or infer by running, as it were, from one fact or reason to another, and deriving a conclusion; an exercise or act of this power; reasoning; range of reasoning faculty.",
        "Conversation; talk.",
        "The art and manner of speaking and conversing.",
        "Consecutive speech, either written or unwritten, on a given line of thought; speech; treatise; dissertation; sermon, etc.; as, the preacher gave us a long discourse on duty.",
        "Dealing; transaction.",
        "To exercise reason; to employ the mind in judging and inferring; to reason.",
        "To express one's self in oral discourse; to expose one's views; to talk in a continuous or formal manner; to hold forth; to speak; to converse.",
        "To relate something; to tell.",
        "To treat of something in writing and formally.",
        "To treat of; to expose or set forth in language.",
        "To utter or give forth; to speak.",
        "To talk to; to confer with."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Difficult, strange, and harsh to the discourses of natural reason.",
        "Sure he that made us with such large discourse, Looking before and after, gave us not That capability and godlike reason To fust in us unused.",
        "In their discourses after supper.",
        "Filling the head with variety of thoughts, and the mouth with copious discourse.",
        "Of excellent breeding, admirable discourse.",
        "Good Captain Bessus, tell us the discourse Betwixt Tigranes and our king, and how We got the victory.",
        "Bid me discourse, I will enchant thine ear.",
        "The life of William Tyndale . . . is sufficiently and at large discoursed in the book.",
        "It will discourse most eloquent music.",
        "I have spoken to my brother, who is the patron, to discourse the minister about it."
    ],
    "etymology": "[L. discursus a running to and fro, discourse, fr. discurrere, discursum, to run to and fro, to discourse; dis- + currere to run: cf. F. discours. See Course.]"
}