{
    "word": "Display",
    "definitions": [
        "To unfold; to spread wide; to expand; to stretch out; to spread.",
        "To extend the front of (a column), bringing it into line.",
        "To spread before the view; to show; to exhibit to the sight, or to the mind; to make manifest.",
        "To make an exhibition of; to set in view conspicuously or ostentatiously; to exhibit for the sake of publicity; to parade.",
        "To make conspicuous by large or prominent type.",
        "To discover; to descry.",
        "To output (results or data) in a visible manner on the screen of a monitor, CRT, or other device.",
        "To make a display; to act as one making a show or demonstration.",
        "An opening or unfolding; exhibition; manifestation.",
        "Ostentatious show; exhibition for effect; parade.",
        "An electronic device on which the output signal of another electronic device may be presented in a visual form; -- also called display device. Typically the display device it is the screen of a cathode-ray tube, as in a computer monitor, but other forms of visual display such as LED or liquid crystal devices are also used. The printed output from a computer or other device is not considered as a display.",
        "The output signal from a computer program, displayed on a display device. The displayed signal may consist of letters, numbers, or any graphical image.",
        "a pattern of behavior, such as showing a body part to another animal, by which one animal conveys information to another, as for mating or defense."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The northern wind his wings did broad display.",
        "His statement . . . displays very clearly the actual condition of the army.",
        "Proudly displaying the insignia of their order.",
        "And from his seat took pleasure to display The city so adorned with towers.",
        "Having witnessed displays of his power and grace.",
        "He died, as erring man should die, Without display, without parade."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. displaien, desplaien, OF. despleier, desploier, F. d; pref. des- (L. dis-) + pleier, ploier, plier, F. ployer, plier, to fold, bend, L. plicare. See Ply, and cf. Deploy, Splay.]"
}