{
    "word": "Dispatch",
    "definitions": [
        "To dispose of speedily, as business; to execute quickly; to make a speedy end of; to finish; to perform.",
        "To rid; to free.",
        "To get rid of by sending off; to send away hastily.",
        "To send off or away; -- particularly applied to sending off messengers, messages, letters, etc., on special business, and implying haste.",
        "To send out of the world; to put to death.",
        "To make haste; to conclude an affair; to finish a matter of business.",
        "The act of sending a message or messenger in haste or on important business.",
        "Any sending away; dismissal; riddance.",
        "The finishing up of a business; speedy performance, as of business; prompt execution; diligence; haste.",
        "A message dispatched or sent with speed; especially, an important official letter sent from one public officer to another; -- often used in the plural; as, a messenger has arrived with dispatches for the American minister; naval or military dispatches.",
        "A message transmitted by telegraph."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Ere we put ourselves in arms, dispatch we The business we have talked of.",
        "[The] harvest men . . . almost in one fair day dispatcheth all the harvest work.",
        "I had clean dispatched myself of this great charge.",
        "Unless dispatched to the mansion house in the country . . . they perish among the lumber of garrets.",
        "Even with the speediest expedition I will dispatch him to the emperor's cou Shak. [1913 Webster]",
        "The company shall stone them with stones, and dispatch them with their swords.",
        "They have dispatched with Pompey.",
        "To the utter dispatch of all their most beloved comforts.",
        "Serious business, craving quick dispatch.",
        "To carry his scythe . . . with a sufficient dispatch through a sufficient space."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OF. despeechier, F. d; prob. from pref. des- (L. dis-) + (assumed) LL. pedicare to place obstacles in the way, fr. L. pedica fetter, fr. pes, pedis, foot. See Foot, and cf. Impeach, Despatch.]"
}