{
    "word": "Distemper",
    "definitions": [
        "To temper or mix unduly; to make disproportionate; to change the due proportions of.",
        "To derange the functions of, whether bodily, mental, or spiritual; to disorder; to disease.",
        "To deprive of temper or moderation; to disturb; to ruffle; to make disaffected, ill-humored, or malignant.",
        "To intoxicate.",
        "To mix (colors) in the way of distemper; as, to distemper colors with size.",
        "An undue or unnatural temper, or disproportionate mixture of parts.",
        "Severity of climate; extreme weather, whether hot or cold.",
        "A morbid state of the animal system; indisposition; malady; disorder; -- at present chiefly applied to diseases of brutes; as, a distemper in dogs; the horse distemper; the horn distemper in cattle.",
        "Morbid temper of the mind; undue predominance of a passion or appetite; mental derangement; bad temper; ill humor.",
        "Political disorder; tumult.",
        "A preparation of opaque or body colors, in which the pigments are tempered or diluted with weak glue or size (cf. Tempera) instead of oil, usually for scene painting, or for walls and ceilings of rooms.",
        "A painting done with this preparation."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "When . . . the humors in his body ben distempered.",
        "The imagination, when completely distempered, is the most incurable of all disordered faculties.",
        "The courtiers reeling, And the duke himself, I dare not say distempered, But kind, and in his tottering chair carousing.",
        "Those countries . . . under the tropic, were of a distemper uninhabitable.",
        "They heighten distempers to diseases.",
        "Little faults proceeding on distemper.",
        "Some frenzy distemper had got into his head."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OF. destemprer, destremper, to distemper, F. d to soak, soften, slake (lime); pref. des- (L. dis-) + OF. temprer, tremper, F. tremper, L. temperare to mingle in due proportion. See Temper, and cf. Destemprer.]"
}