{
    "word": "Divide",
    "definitions": [
        "To part asunder (a whole); to sever into two or more parts or pieces; to sunder; to separate into parts.",
        "To cause to be separate; to keep apart by a partition, or by an imaginary line or limit; as, a wall divides two houses; a stream divides the towns.",
        "To make partition of among a number; to apportion, as profits of stock among proprietors; to give in shares; to distribute; to mete out; to share.",
        "To disunite in opinion or interest; to make discordant or hostile; to set at variance.",
        "To separate into two parts, in order to ascertain the votes for and against a measure; as, to divide a legislative house upon a question.",
        "To subject to arithmetical division.",
        "To separate into species; -- said of a genus or generic term.",
        "To mark divisions on; to graduate; as, to divide a sextant.",
        "To play or sing in a florid style, or with variations.",
        "To be separated; to part; to open; to go asunder.",
        "To cause separation; to disunite.",
        "To break friendship; to fall out.",
        "To have a share; to partake.",
        "To vote, as in the British Parliament, by the members separating themselves into two parties (as on opposite sides of the hall or in opposite lobbies), that is, the ayes dividing from the noes.",
        "A dividing ridge of land between the tributaries of two streams; also called watershed and water parting. A divide on either side of which the waters drain into two different oceans is called a continental divide."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Divide the living child in two.",
        "Let it divide the waters from the waters.",
        "True justice unto people to divide.",
        "Ye shall divide the land by lot.",
        "If a kingdom be divided against itself, that kingdom can not stand.",
        "Every family became now divided within itself.",
        "The Indo-Germanic family divides into three groups.",
        "A gulf, a strait, the sea intervening between islands, divide less than the matted forest.",
        "The emperors sat, voted, and divided with their equals."
    ],
    "etymology": "[L. dividere, divisum; di- = dis- + root signifying to part; cf. Skr. vyadh to pierce; perh. akin to L. vidua widow, and E. widow. Cf. Device, Devise.]"
}