{
    "word": "Double",
    "definitions": [
        "Being in pairs; presenting two of a kind, or two in a set together; coupled.",
        "Divided into two; acting two parts, one openly and the other secretly; equivocal; deceitful; insincere.",
        "Having the petals in a flower considerably increased beyond the natural number, usually as the result of cultivation and the expense of the stamens, or stamens and pistils. The white water lily and some other plants have their blossoms naturally double.",
        "Twice; doubly.",
        "To increase by adding an equal number, quantity, length, value, or the like; multiply by two; as, to double a sum of money; to double a number, or length.",
        "To make of two thicknesses or folds by turning or bending together in the middle; to fold one part upon another part of; as, to double the leaf of a book, and the like; to clinch, as the fist; -- often followed by up; as, to double up a sheet of paper or cloth.",
        "To be the double of; to exceed by twofold; to contain or be worth twice as much as.",
        "To pass around or by; to march or sail round, so as to reverse the direction of motion.",
        "To unite, as ranks or files, so as to form one from each two.",
        "To be increased to twice the sum, number, quantity, length, or value; to increase or grow to twice as much.",
        "To return upon one's track; to turn and go back over the same ground, or in an opposite direction.",
        "To play tricks; to use sleights; to play false.",
        "To set up a word or words a second time by mistake; to make a doublet.",
        "Twice as much; twice the number, sum, quantity, length, value, and the like.",
        "Among compositors, a doublet (see Doublet, 2.); among pressmen, a sheet that is twice pulled, and blurred.",
        "That which is doubled over or together; a doubling; a plait; a fold.",
        "A turn or circuit in running to escape pursues; hence, a trick; a shift; an artifice.",
        "A person or thing that is the counterpart of another; a duplicate; copy; (Obs.) transcript; -- now chiefly used of persons. Hence, a wraith.",
        "A player or singer who prepares to take the part of another player in his absence; a substitute; -- used especially of a person who resembles an actor and takes the actor's place in scenes requiring special skills; as, a stunt double.",
        "Double beer; strong beer.",
        "A feast in which the antiphon is doubled, hat is, said twice, before and after the Psalms, instead of only half being said, as in simple feasts.",
        "A game between two pairs of players; as, a first prize for doubles.",
        "An old term for a variation, as in Bach's Suites."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Let a double portion of thy spirit be upon me.",
        "Darkness and tempest make a double night.",
        "[Let] The swan, on still St. Mary's lake, Float double, swan and shadow.",
        "With a double heart do they speak.",
        "I was double their age.",
        "Double six thousand, and then treble that.",
        "Then the old man Was wroth, and doubled up his hands.",
        "Thus redoubling ours, brave Rupert leads the way.",
        "Sailing along the coast, the doubled the promontory of Carthage.",
        "'T is observed in particular nations, that within the space of three hundred years, notwithstanding all casualties, the number of men doubles.",
        "Doubling and turning like a hunted hare.",
        "Doubling and doubling with laborious walk.",
        "What penalty and danger you accrue, If you be found to double.",
        "If the thief be found, let him pay double.",
        "Rolled up in sevenfold double Of plagues.",
        "These men are too well acquainted with the chase to be flung off by any false steps or doubles.",
        "My charming friend . . . has, I am almost sure, a double, who preaches his afternoon sermons for him."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. doblen, dublen, doublen, F. doubler, fr. L. duplare, fr. duplus. See Double, a.]"
}