{
    "word": "Down",
    "definitions": [
        "Fine, soft, hairy outgrowth from the skin or surface of animals or plants, not matted and fleecy like wool",
        "The soft under feathers of birds. They have short stems with soft rachis and bards and long threadlike barbules, without hooklets.",
        "The pubescence of plants; the hairy crown or envelope of the seeds of certain plants, as of the thistle.",
        "The soft hair of the face when beginning to appear.",
        "That which is made of down, as a bed or pillow; that which affords ease and repose, like a bed of down",
        "To cover, ornament, line, or stuff with down.",
        "A bank or rounded hillock of sand thrown up by the wind along or near the shore; a flattish-topped hill; -- usually in the plural.",
        "A tract of poor, sandy, undulating or hilly land near the sea, covered with fine turf which serves chiefly for the grazing of sheep; -- usually in the plural.",
        "A road for shipping in the English Channel or Straits of Dover, near Deal, employed as a naval rendezvous in time of war.",
        "A state of depression; low state; abasement.",
        "In the direction of gravity or toward the center of the earth; toward or in a lower place or position; below; -- the opposite of up.",
        "From a higher to a lower position, literally or figuratively; in a descending direction; from the top of an ascent; from an upright position; to the ground or floor; to or into a lower or an inferior condition; as, into a state of humility, disgrace, misery, and the like; into a state of rest; -- used with verbs indicating motion.",
        "In a low or the lowest position, literally or figuratively; at the bottom of a descent; below the horizon; on the ground; in a condition of humility, dejection, misery, and the like; in a state of quiet.",
        "From a remoter or higher antiquity.",
        "From a greater to a less bulk, or from a thinner to a thicker consistence; as, to boil down in cookery, or in making decoctions.",
        "In a descending direction along; from a higher to a lower place upon or within; at a lower place in or on; as, down a hill; down a well.",
        "Hence: Towards the mouth of a river; towards the sea; as, to sail or swim down a stream; to sail down the sound.",
        "To cause to go down; to make descend; to put down; to overthrow, as in wrestling; hence, to subdue; to bring down.",
        "To go down; to descend.",
        "Downcast; as, a down look.",
        "Downright; absolute; positive; as, a down denial.",
        "Downward; going down; sloping; as, a down stroke; a down grade; a down train on a railway."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "And the first down begins to shade his face.",
        "When in the down I sink my head, Sleep, Death's twin brother, times my breath.",
        "Thou bosom softness, down of all my cares!",
        "Hills afford prospects, as they must needs acknowledge who have been on the downs of Sussex.",
        "She went by dale, and she went by down.",
        "Seven thousand broad-tailed sheep grazed on his downs.",
        "On the 11th [June, 1771] we run up the channel . . . at noon we were abreast of Dover, and about three came to an anchor in the Downs, and went ashore at Deal.",
        "It the downs of life too much outnumber the ups.",
        "It will be rain to-night. Let it come down.",
        "I sit me down beside the hazel grove.",
        "And that drags down his life.",
        "There is not a more melancholy object in the learned world than a man who has written himself down.",
        "The French . . . shone down [i. e., outshone] the English.",
        "I was down and out of breath.",
        "The moon is down; I have not heard the clock.",
        "He that is down needs fear no fall.",
        "Venerable men! you have come down to us from a former generation.",
        "Come down upon us with a mighty power.",
        "I remember how you downed Beauclerk and Hamilton, the wits, once at our house."
    ],
    "etymology": "[Akin to LG. dune, dun, Icel. d, Sw. dun, Dan. duun, G. daune, cf. D. dons; perh. akin to E. dust.]"
}