{
    "word": "Draft",
    "definitions": [
        "A selecting or detaching of soldiers from an army, or from any part of it, or from a military post; also from any district, or any company or collection of persons, or from the people at large; also, the body of men thus drafted.",
        "An order from one person or party to another, directing the payment of money; a bill of exchange.",
        "An allowance or deduction made from the gross weight of goods.",
        "A drawing of lines for a plan; a plan delineated, or drawn in outline; a delineation. See Draught.",
        "The form of any writing as first drawn up; the first rough sketch of written composition, to be filled in, or completed. See Draught.",
        "A narrow border left on a finished stone, worked differently from the rest of its face.",
        "A narrow border worked to a plane surface along the edge of a stone, or across its face, as a guide to the stone-cutter.",
        "The slant given to the furrows in the dress of a millstone.",
        "Depth of water necessary to float a ship. See Draught.",
        "A current of air. Same as Draught.",
        "A quantity of liquid poured out for drinking; a dose.",
        "The act of drawing a quantity of liquid from a large container; also, the quantity of liquid so drawn.",
        "A device for regulating the flow of gases in a chimney, stovepipe, fireplace, etc.; as, to close the chimney draft. It is usually a flat plate of the same internal dimensions as the flue, which can be rotated to be parallel to or perpendicular to the current of gases.",
        "Pertaining to, or used for, drawing or pulling (as vehicles, loads, etc.). Same as Draught; as, a draft horse.",
        "Relating to, or characterized by, a draft, or current of air. Same as Draught.",
        "To draw the outline of; to delineate.",
        "To compose and write; as, to draft a memorial.",
        "To draw from a military band or post, or from any district, company, or society; to detach; to select; especially, to compulsorily select and induct members of a population to serve in the armed forces.",
        "To transfer by draft."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Everything available for draft burden.",
        "Several of the States had supplied the deficiency by drafts to serve for the year.",
        "I thought it most prudent to defer the drafts till advice was received of the progress of the loan.",
        "HotLips Houlihan: How did a degenerate person like him achieve such a position of responsibility in the army? Radar: He was drafted.",
        "Some royal seminary in Upper Egypt, from whence they drafted novices to supply their colleges and temples.",
        "All her rents been drafted to London."
    ],
    "etymology": null
}