{
    "word": "Draught",
    "definitions": [
        "The act of drawing or pulling",
        "The act of moving loads by drawing, as by beasts of burden, and the like.",
        "The drawing of a bowstring.",
        "Act of drawing a net; a sweeping the water for fish.",
        "The act of drawing liquor into the mouth and throat; the act of drinking.",
        "A sudden attack or drawing upon an enemy.",
        "The act of selecting or detaching soldiers; a draft (see Draft, n., 2)",
        "The act of drawing up, marking out, or delineating; representation.",
        "That which is drawn",
        "That which is taken by sweeping with a net.",
        "The force drawn; a detachment; -- in this sense usually written draft.",
        "The quantity drawn in at once in drinking; a potion or potation.",
        "A sketch, outline, or representation, whether written, designed, or drawn; a delineation.",
        "An order for the payment of money; -- in this sense almost always written draft.",
        "A current of air moving through an inclosed place, as through a room or up a chimney.",
        "That which draws",
        "A team of oxen or horses.",
        "A sink or drain; a privy.",
        "A mild vesicatory; a sinapism; as, to apply draughts to the feet.",
        "Capacity of being drawn; force necessary to draw; traction.",
        "The depth of water necessary to float a ship, or the depth a ship sinks in water, especially when laden; as, a ship of twelve feet draught.",
        "An allowance on weighable goods. [Eng.] See Draft, 4.",
        "A move, as at chess or checkers.",
        "The bevel given to the pattern for a casting, in order that it may be drawn from the sand without injury to the mold.",
        "See Draft, n., 7.",
        "Used for drawing vehicles, loads, etc.; as, a draught beast; draught hooks.",
        "Relating to, or characterized by, a draft, or current of air.",
        "Used in making drawings; as, draught compasses.",
        "Drawn directly from the barrel, or other receptacle, in distinction from bottled; on draught; -- said of ale, cider, and the like.",
        "To diminish or exhaust by drawing.",
        "To draw in outline; to make a draught, sketch, or plan of, as in architectural and mechanical drawing."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "A general custom of using oxen for all sort of draught would be, perhaps, the greatest improvement.",
        "She sent an arrow forth with mighty draught.",
        "Upon the draught of a pond, not one fish was left.",
        "In his hands he took the goblet, but a while the draught forbore.",
        "By drawing sudden draughts upon the enemy when he looketh not for you.",
        "Launch out into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught.",
        "He laid down his pipe, and cast his net, which brought him a very great draught.",
        "Disguise thyself as thou wilt, still, Slavery, . . . still thou art a bitter draught.",
        "Low lies that house where nut-brown draughts inspired.",
        "A draught of a Toleration Act was offered to the Parliament by a private member.",
        "No picture or draught of these things from the report of the eye.",
        "He preferred to go and sit upon the stairs, in . . . a strong draught of air, until he was again sent for.",
        "The Hertfordshire wheel plow . . . is of the easiest draught.",
        "The Parliament so often draughted and drained."
    ],
    "etymology": "[The same as draft, the spelling with gh indicating an older pronunciation. See Draft, n., Draw.]"
}