{
    "word": "Drum",
    "definitions": [
        "An instrument of percussion, consisting either of a hollow cylinder, over each end of which is stretched a piece of skin or vellum, to be beaten with a stick; or of a metallic hemisphere (kettledrum) with a single piece of skin to be so beaten; the common instrument for marking time in martial music; one of the pair of tympani in an orchestra, or cavalry band.",
        "Anything resembling a drum in form",
        "A sheet iron radiator, often in the shape of a drum, for warming an apartment by means of heat received from a stovepipe, or a cylindrical receiver for steam, etc.",
        "A small cylindrical box in which figs, etc., are packed.",
        "The tympanum of the ear; -- often, but incorrectly, applied to the tympanic membrane.",
        "One of the cylindrical, or nearly cylindrical, blocks, of which the shaft of a column is composed; also, a vertical wall, whether circular or polygonal in plan, carrying a cupola or dome.",
        "A cylinder on a revolving shaft, generally for the purpose of driving several pulleys, by means of belts or straps passing around its periphery; also, the barrel of a hoisting machine, on which the rope or chain is wound.",
        "See Drumfish.",
        "A noisy, tumultuous assembly of fashionable people at a private house; a rout.",
        "A tea party; a kettledrum.",
        "To beat a drum with sticks; to beat or play a tune on a drum.",
        "To beat with the fingers, as with drumsticks; to beat with a rapid succession of strokes; to make a noise like that of a beaten drum; as, the ruffed grouse drums with his wings.",
        "To throb, as the heart.",
        "To go about, as a drummer does, to gather recruits, to draw or secure partisans, customers, etc,; -- with for.",
        "To execute on a drum, as a tune.",
        "(With out) To expel ignominiously, with beat of drum; as, to drum out a deserter or rogue from a camp, etc.",
        "(With up) To assemble by, or as by, beat of drum; to collect; to gather or draw by solicitation; as, to drum up recruits; to drum up customers."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The drums cry bud-a-dub.",
        "Not unaptly styled a drum, from the noise and emptiness of the entertainment.",
        "Drumming with his fingers on the arm of his chair."
    ],
    "etymology": "[Cf. D. trom, trommel, LG. trumme, G. trommel, Dan. tromme, Sw. trumma, OHG. trumba a trumpet, Icel. pruma a clap of thunder, and as a verb, to thunder, Dan. drum a booming sound, drumme to boom; prob. partly at least of imitative origin; perh. akin to E. trum, or trumpet.]"
}