{
    "word": "Effect",
    "definitions": [
        "Execution; performance; realization; operation; as, the law goes into effect in May.",
        "Manifestation; expression; sign.",
        "In general: That which is produced by an agent or cause; the event which follows immediately from an antecedent, called the cause; result; consequence; outcome; fruit; as, the effect of luxury.",
        "Impression left on the mind; sensation produced.",
        "Power to produce results; efficiency; force; importance; account; as, to speak with effect.",
        "Consequence intended; purpose; meaning; general intent; -- with to.",
        "The purport; the sum and substance.",
        "Reality; actual meaning; fact, as distinguished from mere appearance.",
        "Goods; movables; personal estate; -- sometimes used to embrace real as well as personal property; as, the people escaped from the town with their effects.",
        "To produce, as a cause or agent; to cause to be.",
        "To bring to pass; to execute; to enforce; to achieve; to accomplish."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "That no compunctious visitings of nature Shake my fell purpose, nor keep peace between The effect and it.",
        "All the large effects That troop with majesty.",
        "The effect is the unfailing index of the amount of the cause.",
        "Patchwork . . . introduced for oratorical effect.",
        "The effect was heightened by the wild and lonely nature of the place.",
        "They spake to her to that effect.",
        "No other in effect than what it seems.",
        "Resolving all events, with their effects And manifold results, into the will And arbitration wise of the Supreme.",
        "Shun the bitter consequence, for know, The day thou eatest thereof, . . . thou shalt die.",
        "So great a body such exploits to effect.",
        "To effect that which the divine counsels had decreed.",
        "They sailed away without effecting their purpose."
    ],
    "etymology": "[L. effectus, fr. efficere, effectum, to effect; ex + facere to make: cf. F. effet, formerly also spelled effect. See Fact.]"
}