{
    "word": "Excuse",
    "definitions": [
        "To free from accusation, or the imputation of fault or blame; to clear from guilt; to release from a charge; to justify by extenuating a fault; to exculpate; to absolve; to acquit.",
        "To pardon, as a fault; to forgive entirely, or to admit to be little censurable, and to overlook; as, we excuse irregular conduct, when extraordinary circumstances appear to justify it.",
        "To regard with indulgence; to view leniently or to overlook; to pardon.",
        "To free from an impending obligation or duty; hence, to disengage; to dispense with; to release by favor; also, to remit by favor; not to exact; as, to excuse a forfeiture.",
        "To relieve of an imputation by apology or defense; to make apology for as not seriously evil; to ask pardon or indulgence for.",
        "The act of excusing, apologizing, exculpating, pardoning, releasing, and the like; acquittal; release; absolution; justification; extenuation.",
        "That which is offered as a reason for being excused; a plea offered in extenuation of a fault or irregular deportment; apology; as, an excuse for neglect of duty; excuses for delay of payment.",
        "That which excuses; that which extenuates or justifies a fault."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "A man's persuasion that a thing is duty, will not excuse him from guilt in practicing it, if really and indeed it be against Gog's law.",
        "I must excuse what can not be amended.",
        "And in our own (excuse some courtly stains.) No whiter page than Addison remains.",
        "I pray thee have me excused.",
        "Think ye that we excuse ourselves to you?",
        "Pleading so wisely in excuse of it.",
        "Hence with denial vain and coy excuse.",
        "If eyes were made for seeing. Then beauty is its own excuse for being."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. escusen, cusen, OF. escuser, excuser, F. excuser, fr. L. excusare; ex out + causa cause, causari to plead. See Cause.]"
}