{
    "word": "Exercise",
    "definitions": [
        "The act of exercising; a setting in action or practicing; employment in the proper mode of activity; exertion; application; use; habitual activity; occupation, in general; practice.",
        "Exertion for the sake of training or improvement whether physical, intellectual, or moral; practice to acquire skill, knowledge, virtue, perfectness, grace, etc.",
        "Bodily exertion for the sake of keeping the organs and functions in a healthy state; hygienic activity; as, to take exercise on horseback; to exercise on a treadmill or in a gym.",
        "The performance of an office, a ceremony, or a religious duty.",
        "That which is done for the sake of exercising, practicing, training, or promoting skill, health, mental, improvement, moral discipline, etc.; that which is assigned or prescribed for such ends; hence, a disquisition; a lesson; a task; as, military or naval exercises; musical exercises; an exercise in composition; arithmetic exercises.",
        "That which gives practice; a trial; a test.",
        "To set in action; to cause to act, move, or make exertion; to give employment to; to put in action habitually or constantly; to school or train; to exert repeatedly; to busy.",
        "To exert for the sake of training or improvement; to practice in order to develop; hence, also, to improve by practice; to discipline, and to use or to for the purpose of training; as, to exercise arms; to exercise one's self in music; to exercise troops.",
        "To occupy the attention and effort of; to task; to tax, especially in a painful or vexatious manner; harass; to vex; to worry or make anxious; to affect; to discipline; as, exercised with pain.",
        "To put in practice; to carry out in action; to perform the duties of; to use; to employ; to practice; as, to exercise authority; to exercise an office.",
        "To exercise one's self, as under military training; to drill; to take exercise; to use action or exertion; to practice gymnastics; as, to exercise for health or amusement."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "exercise of the important function confided by the constitution to the legislature.",
        "O we will walk this world, Yoked in all exercise of noble end.",
        "An exercise of the eyes and memory.",
        "The wise for cure on exercise depend.",
        "Lewis refused even those of the church of England . . . the public exercise of their religion.",
        "To draw him from his holy exercise.",
        "The clumsy exercises of the European tourney.",
        "He seems to have taken a degree, and performed public exercises in Cambridge, in 1565.",
        "Patience is more oft the exercise Of saints, the trial of their fortitude.",
        "Herein do I Exercise myself, to have always a conscience void of offence.",
        "About him exercised heroic games The unarmed youth.",
        "Where pain of unextinguishable fire Must exercise us without hope of end.",
        "I am the Lord which exercise loving-kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth.",
        "The people of the land have used oppression and exercised robbery.",
        "I wear my trusty sword, When I do exercise."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. exercice, L. exercitium, from exercere, exercitum, to drive on, keep, busy, prob. orig., to thrust or drive out of the inclosure; ex out + arcere to shut up, inclose. See Ark.]"
}