{
    "word": "Express",
    "definitions": [
        "Directly and distinctly stated; declared in terms; not implied or left to inference; made unambiguous by intention and care; clear; not dubious; as, express consent; an express statement.",
        "Intended for a particular purpose; relating to an express; sent on a particular errand; dispatched with special speed; as, an express messenger or train. Also used adverbially.",
        "of or pertaining to an express train or other conveyance designated an express{5}; makiung few or no intermediate stops; as, an express stop; an express fare; an express elevator.",
        "A clear image or representation; an expression; a plain declaration.",
        "A messenger sent on a special errand; a courier; hence, a regular and fast conveyance; commonly, a company or system for the prompt and safe transportation of merchandise or parcels.",
        "An express office.",
        "That which is sent by an express messenger or message.",
        "a railway train or bus for transporting passengers or goods with speed and punctuality; a train or bus that does not stop at certain stations. Contrasted to local; as, take the express to get there faster.",
        "To press or squeeze out; as, to express the juice of grapes, or of apples; hence, to extort; to elicit.",
        "To make or offer a representation of; to show by a copy or likeness; to represent; to resemble.",
        "To give a true impression of; to represent and make known; to manifest plainly; to show in general; to exhibit, as an opinion or feeling, by a look, gesture, and esp. by language; to declare; to utter; to tell.",
        "To make known the opinions or feelings of; to declare what is in the mind of; to show (one's self); to cause to appear; -- used reflexively.",
        "To denote; to designate.",
        "To send by express messenger; to forward by special opportunity, or through the medium of an express; as, to express a package.",
        "to produce products that cause the appearance of the corresponding phenotype; -- of a gene or of an organism with a specific gene; as, to express the beta-galactosidase gene,"
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Their human countenance The express resemblance of the gods.",
        "I have express commandment.",
        "A messenger sent express from the other world.",
        "The only remanent express of Christ's sacrifice on earth.",
        "She charged him . . . to ask at the express if anything came up from town.",
        "All the fruits out of which drink is expressed.",
        "And th'idle breath all utterly expressed.",
        "Halters and racks can not express from thee More than by deeds.",
        "Each skillful artist shall express thy form.",
        "So kids and whelps their sires and dams express.",
        "My words express my purpose.",
        "They expressed in their lives those excellent doctrines of morality.",
        "Mr. Phillips did express with much indignation against me, one evening.",
        "Moses and Aaron took these men, which are expressed by their names."
    ],
    "etymology": "[Cf. F. expr a messenger.]"
}