{
    "word": "Fear",
    "definitions": [
        "A painful emotion or passion excited by the expectation of evil, or the apprehension of impending danger; apprehension; anxiety; solicitude; alarm; dread.",
        "Apprehension of incurring, or solicitude to avoid, God's wrath; the trembling and awful reverence felt toward the Supreme Being.",
        "Respectful reverence for men of authority or worth.",
        "That which causes, or which is the object of, apprehension or alarm; source or occasion of terror; danger; dreadfulness.",
        "To feel a painful apprehension of; to be afraid of; to consider or expect with emotion of alarm or solicitude.",
        "To have a reverential awe of; to be solicitous to avoid the displeasure of.",
        "To be anxious or solicitous for; now replaced by fear for.",
        "To suspect; to doubt.",
        "To affright; to terrify; to drive away or prevent approach of by fear.",
        "To be in apprehension of evil; to be afraid; to feel anxiety on account of some expected evil."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Fear is an uneasiness of the mind, upon the thought of future evil likely to befall us.",
        "Where no hope is left, is left no fear.",
        "I will put my fear in their hearts.",
        "I will teach you the fear of the Lord.",
        "Render therefore to all their dues; tribute to whom tribute is due . . . fear to whom fear.",
        "There were they in great fear, where no fear was.",
        "The fear of your adventure would counsel you to a more equal enterprise.",
        "I will fear no evil, for thou art with me.",
        "Leave them to God above; him serve and fear.",
        "The sins of the father are to be laid upon the children, therefore . . . I fear you.",
        "Ay what else, fear you not her courage?",
        "Fear their people from doing evil.",
        "Tush, tush! fear boys with bugs.",
        "I exceedingly fear and quake."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. fer, feer, fere, AS. f a coming suddenly upon, fear, danger; akin to D. vaar, OHG. f danger, G. gefahr, Icel. f harm, mischief, plague, and to E. fare, peril. See Fare.]"
}