{
    "word": "fine",
    "definitions": [
        "Aiming at show or effect; loaded with ornament; overdressed or overdecorated; showy.",
        "Nice; delicate; subtle; exquisite; artful; skillful; dexterous.",
        "Not coarse, gross, or heavy",
        "Not gross; subtile; thin; tenous.",
        "Not coarse; comminuted; in small particles; as, fine sand or flour.",
        "Not thick or heavy; slender; filmy; as, a fine thread.",
        "Thin; attenuate; keen; as, a fine edge.",
        "Made of fine materials; light; delicate; as, fine linen or silk.",
        "Having (such) a proportion of pure metal in its composition; as, coins nine tenths fine.",
        "(Used ironically.)",
        "To make fine; to refine; to purify, to clarify; as, to fine gold.",
        "To make finer, or less coarse, as in bulk, texture, etc.; as. to fine the soil.",
        "To change by fine gradations; as (Naut.), to fine down a ship's lines, to diminish her lines gradually.",
        "A sum of money paid as the settlement of a claim, or by way of terminating a matter in dispute; especially, a payment of money imposed upon a party as a punishment for an offense; a mulct.",
        "A final agreement concerning lands or rents between persons, as the lord and his vassal.",
        "A sum of money or price paid for obtaining a benefit, favor, or privilege, as for admission to a copyhold, or for obtaining or renewing a lease.",
        "To impose a pecuniary penalty upon for an offense or breach of law; to set a fine on by judgment of a court; to punish by fine; to mulct; as, the trespassers were fined ten dollars.",
        "To pay a fine. See Fine, n., 3 (b).",
        "To finish; to cease; or to cause to cease.",
        "In a manner so that the driven ball strikes the object ball so far to one side as to be deflected but little, the object ball being driven to one side."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The gain thereof [is better] than fine gold.",
        "A cup of wine that's brisk and fine.",
        "Not only the finest gentleman of his time, but one of the finest scholars.",
        "To soothe the sick bed of so fine a being [Keats].",
        "He gratified them with occasional . . . fine writing.",
        "The spider's touch, how exquisitely fine!",
        "The nicest and most delicate touches of satire consist in fine raillery.",
        "He has as fine a hand at picking a pocket as a woman.",
        "The eye standeth in the finer medium and the object in the grosser.",
        "Ye have made a fine hand, fellows.",
        "It hath been fined and refined by . . . learned men.",
        "I often sate at home On evenings, watching how they fined themselves With gradual conscience to a perfect night.",
        "Is this the fine of his fines?",
        "Men fined for the king's good will; or that he would remit his anger; women fined for leave to marry.",
        "I watched her [the ship] . . . gradually fining down in the westward until I lost of her hull."
    ],
    "etymology": "[From Fine, a.]"
}