{
    "word": "Float",
    "definitions": [
        "A float board. See Float board (below).",
        "A contrivance for affording a copious stream of water to the heated surface of an object of large bulk, as an anvil or die.",
        "The act of flowing; flux; flow.",
        "A quantity of earth, eighteen feet square and one foot deep.",
        "The trowel or tool with which the floated coat of plastering is leveled and smoothed.",
        "A polishing block used in marble working; a runner.",
        "A single-cut file for smoothing; a tool used by shoemakers for rasping off pegs inside a shoe.",
        "A coal cart.",
        "The sea; a wave. See Flote, n.",
        "The free use of money for a time between occurrence of a transaction (such as depositing a check or a purchase made using a credit card), and the time when funds are withdrawn to cover the transaction; also, the money made available between transactions in that manner.",
        "a vehicle on which an exhibit or display is mounted, driven or pulled as part of a parade. The float often is based on a large flat platform, and may contain a very elaborate structure with a tableau or people.",
        "To rest on the surface of any fluid; to swim; to be buoyed up.",
        "To move quietly or gently on the water, as a raft; to drift along; to move or glide without effort or impulse on the surface of a fluid, or through the air.",
        "To cause to float; to cause to rest or move on the surface of a fluid; as, the tide floated the ship into the harbor.",
        "To flood; to overflow; to cover with water.",
        "To pass over and level the surface of with a float while the plastering is kept wet.",
        "To support and sustain the credit of, as a commercial scheme or a joint-stock company, so as to enable it to go into, or continue in, operation."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "This reform bill . . . had been used as a float by the conservative ministry.",
        "The ark no more now floats, but seems on ground.",
        "Three blustering nights, borne by the southern blast, I floated.",
        "They stretch their broad plumes and float upon the wind.",
        "There seems a floating whisper on the hills.",
        "Had floated that bell on the Inchcape rock.",
        "Proud Pactolus floats the fruitful lands."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. flotien, flotten, AS. flotian to float, swim, fr. fle. See Float, n.]"
}