{
    "word": "Flourish",
    "definitions": [
        "To grow luxuriantly; to increase and enlarge, as a healthy growing plant; a thrive.",
        "To be prosperous; to increase in wealth, honor, comfort, happiness, or whatever is desirable; to thrive; to be prominent and influental; specifically, of authors, painters, etc., to be in a state of activity or production.",
        "To use florid language; to indulge in rhetorical figures and lofty expressions; to be flowery.",
        "To make bold and sweeping, fanciful, or wanton movements, by way of ornament, parade, bravado, etc.; to play with fantastic and irregular motion.",
        "To make ornamental strokes with the pen; to write graceful, decorative figures.",
        "To execute an irregular or fanciful strain of music, by way of ornament or prelude.",
        "To boast; to vaunt; to brag.",
        "To adorn with flowers orbeautiful figures, either natural or artificial; to ornament with anything showy; to embellish.",
        "To embellish with the flowers of diction; to adorn with rhetorical figures; to grace with ostentatious eloquence; to set off with a parade of words.",
        "To move in bold or irregular figures; to swing about in circles or vibrations by way of show or triumph; to brandish.",
        "To develop; to make thrive; to expand.",
        "A flourishing condition; prosperity; vigor.",
        "Decoration; ornament; beauty.",
        "Something made or performed in a fanciful, wanton, or vaunting manner, by way of ostentation, to excite admiration, etc.; ostentatious embellishment; ambitious copiousness or amplification; parade of words and figures; show; as, a flourish of rhetoric or of wit.",
        "A fanciful stroke of the pen or graver; a merely decorative figure.",
        "A fantastic or decorative musical passage; a strain of triumph or bravado, not forming part of a regular musical composition; a cal; a fanfare.",
        "The waving of a weapon or other thing; a brandishing; as, the flourish of a sword."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "A tree thrives and flourishes in a kindly . . . soil.",
        "When all the workers of iniquity do flourish.",
        "Bad men as frequently prosper and flourish, and that by the means of their wickedness.",
        "We say Of those that held their heads above the crowd, They flourished then or then.",
        "They dilate . . . and flourish long on little incidents.",
        "Impetuous spread The stream, and smoking flourished o'er his head.",
        "Why do the emperor's trumpets flourish thus?",
        "Sith that the justice of your title to him Doth flourish the deceit.",
        "And flourishes his blade in spite of me.",
        "Bottoms of thread . . . which with a good needle, perhaps may be flourished into large works.",
        "The Roman monarchy, in her highest flourish, never had the like.",
        "The flourish of his sober youth Was the pride of naked truth.",
        "He lards with flourishes his long harangue.",
        "The neat characters and flourishes of a Bible curiously printed.",
        "A flourish, trumpets! strike alarum, drums!"
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. florisshen, flurisshen, OF. flurir, F. fleurir, fr. L. florere to bloom, fr. flos, floris, flower. See Flower, and -ish.]"
}