{
    "word": "Flush",
    "definitions": [
        "To become suddenly suffused, as the cheeks; to turn red; to blush.",
        "To snow red; to shine suddenly; to glow.",
        "To start up suddenly; to take wing as a bird.",
        "To cause to be full; to flood; to overflow; to overwhelm with water; as, to flush the meadows; to flood for the purpose of cleaning; as, to flush a sewer.",
        "To cause the blood to rush into (the face); to put to the blush, or to cause to glow with excitement.",
        "To make suddenly or temporarily red or rosy, as if suffused with blood.",
        "To excite; to animate; to stir.",
        "To cause to start, as a hunter a bird.",
        "To cause to flow; to draw water from, or pour it over or through (a pond, meadow, sewer, etc.); to cleanse by means of a rush of water.",
        "To operate a placer mine, where the continuous supply of water is insufficient, by holding back the water, and releasing it periodically in a flood.",
        "To fill underground spaces, especially in coal mines, with material carried by water, which, after drainage, constitutes a compact mass.",
        "A sudden flowing; a rush which fills or overflows, as of water for cleansing purposes.",
        "A suffusion of the face with blood, as from fear, shame, modesty, or intensity of feeling of any kind; a blush; a glow.",
        "Any tinge of red color like that produced on the cheeks by a sudden rush of blood; as, the flush on the side of a peach; the flush on the clouds at sunset.",
        "A sudden flood or rush of feeling; a thrill of excitement. animation, etc.; as, a flush of joy.",
        "A flock of birds suddenly started up or flushed.",
        "A hand of cards, all of the same suit; -- especially significant in poker, where five cards of the same suit constitute a flush, which beats a straight but is beaten by a full house or four of a kind.",
        "Full of vigor; fresh; glowing; bright.",
        "Affluent; abounding; well furnished or suppled; hence, liberal; prodigal.",
        "Unbroken or even in surface; on a level with the adjacent surface; forming a continuous surface; as, a flush panel; a flush joint.",
        "Consisting of cards of one suit.",
        "So as to be level or even."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The flushing noise of many waters.",
        "It flushes violently out of the cock.",
        "In her cheek, distemper flushing glowed.",
        "Flushing from one spray unto another.",
        "Nor flush with shame the passing virgin's cheek.",
        "Sudden a thought came like a full-blown rose, Flushing his brow.",
        "How faintly flushed. how phantom fair, Was Monte Rosa, hanging there!",
        "Such things as can only feed his pride and flush his ambition.",
        "In manner of a wave or flush.",
        "The flush of angered shame.",
        "With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May.",
        "Lord Strut was not very flush in ready."
    ],
    "etymology": "[Cf. OE. fluschen to fly up, penetrate, F. fluz a flowing, E. flux, dial. Sw. flossa to blaze, and E. flash; perh. influenced by blush. 1. To flow and spread suddenly; to rush; as, blood flushes into the face. [1913 Webster]"
}