{
    "word": "Foil",
    "definitions": [
        "To tread under foot; to trample.",
        "To render (an effort or attempt) vain or nugatory; to baffle; to outwit; to balk; to frustrate; to defeat.",
        "To blunt; to dull; to spoil; as, to foil the scent in chase.",
        "To defile; to soil.",
        "Failure of success when on the point of attainment; defeat; frustration; miscarriage.",
        "A blunt weapon used in fencing, resembling a smallsword in the main, but usually lighter and having a button at the point.",
        "The track or trail of an animal.",
        "A leaf or very thin sheet of metal; as, brass foil; tin foil; gold foil.",
        "A thin leaf of sheet copper silvered and burnished, and afterwards coated with transparent colors mixed with isinglass; -- employed by jewelers to give color or brilliancy to pastes and inferior stones.",
        "Anything that serves by contrast of color or quality to adorn or set off another thing to advantage.",
        "A thin coat of tin, with quicksilver, laid on the back of a looking-glass, to cause reflection.",
        "The space between the cusps in Gothic architecture; a rounded or leaflike ornament, in windows, niches, etc. A group of foils is called trefoil, quatrefoil, quinquefoil, etc., according to the number of arcs of which it is composed."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "King Richard . . . caused the ensigns of Leopold to be pulled down and foiled under foot.",
        "Whom he did all to pieces breake and foyle, In filthy durt, and left so in the loathely soyle.",
        "And by foiled.",
        "Her long locks that foil the painter's power.",
        "Nor e'er was fate so near a foil.",
        "Blunt as the fencer's foils, which hit, but hurt not.",
        "Isocrates contended with a foil against Demosthenes with a word.",
        "As she a black silk cap on him began To set, for foil of his milk-white to serve.",
        "Hector has a foil to set him off."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. fouler to tread or trample under one's feet, to press, oppress. See Full, v. t.]"
}