{
    "word": "Follow",
    "definitions": [
        "To go or come after; to move behind in the same path or direction; hence, to go with (a leader, guide, etc.); to accompany; to attend.",
        "To endeavor to overtake; to go in pursuit of; to chase; to pursue; to prosecute.",
        "To accept as authority; to adopt the opinions of; to obey; to yield to; to take as a rule of action; as, to follow good advice.",
        "To copy after; to take as an example.",
        "To succeed in order of time, rank, or office.",
        "To result from, as an effect from a cause, or an inference from a premise.",
        "To watch, as a receding object; to keep the eyes fixed upon while in motion; to keep the mind upon while in progress, as a speech, musical performance, etc.; also, to keep up with; to understand the meaning, connection, or force of, as of a course of thought or argument.",
        "To walk in, as a road or course; to attend upon closely, as a profession or calling.",
        "To go or come after; -- used in the various senses of the transitive verb: To pursue; to attend; to accompany; to be a result; to imitate.",
        "The art or process of following; specif., in some games, as billiards, a stroke causing a ball to follow another ball after hitting it. Also used adjectively; as, follow shot."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "It waves me forth again; I'll follow it.",
        "I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians, and they shall follow them.",
        "Approve the best, and follow what I approve",
        "Follow peace with all men.",
        "It is most agreeable to some men to follow their reason; and to others to follow their appetites.",
        "We had rather follow the perfections of them whom we like not, than in defects resemble them whom we love.",
        "He followed with his eyes the flitting shade.",
        "O, had I but followed the arts!",
        "O Antony! I have followed thee to this."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. foluwen, folwen, folgen, AS. folgian, fylgean, fylgan; akin to D. volgen, OHG. folg, G. folgen, Icel. fylgja, Sw. f, Dan. f, and perh. to E. folk.]"
}