{
    "word": "For",
    "definitions": [
        "In the most general sense, indicating that in consideration of, in view of, or with reference to, which anything is done or takes place.",
        "Indicating the antecedent cause or occasion of an action; the motive or inducement accompanying and prompting to an act or state; the reason of anything; that on account of which a thing is or is done.",
        "Indicating the remoter and indirect object of an act; the end or final cause with reference to which anything is, acts, serves, or is done.",
        "Indicating that in favor of which, or in promoting which, anything is, or is done; hence, in behalf of; in favor of; on the side of; -- opposed to against.",
        "Indicating that toward which the action of anything is directed, or the point toward which motion is made; [1913 Webster]",
        "Indicating that on place of or instead of which anything acts or serves, or that to which a substitute, an equivalent, a compensation, or the like, is offered or made; instead of, or place of.",
        "Indicating that in the character of or as being which anything is regarded or treated; to be, or as being.",
        "Indicating that instead of which something else controls in the performing of an action, or that in spite of which anything is done, occurs, or is; hence, equivalent to notwithstanding, in spite of; -- generally followed by all, aught, anything, etc.",
        "Indicating the space or time through which an action or state extends; hence, during; in or through the space or time of.",
        "Indicating that in prevention of which, or through fear of which, anything is done.",
        "Because; by reason that; for that; indicating, in Old English, the reason of anything.",
        "Since; because; introducing a reason of something before advanced, a cause, motive, explanation, justification, or the like, of an action related or a statement made. It is logically nearly equivalent to since, or because, but connects less closely, and is sometimes used as a very general introduction to something suggested by what has gone before.",
        "One who takes, or that which is said on, the affrimative side; that which is said in favor of some one or something; -- the antithesis of against, and commonly used in connection with it."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "With fiery eyes sparkling for very wrath.",
        "How to choose dogs for scent or speed.",
        "Now, for so many glorious actions done, For peace at home, and for the public wealth, I mean to crown a bowl for C Dryden. [1913 Webster]",
        "That which we, for our unworthiness, are afraid to crave, our prayer is, that God, for the worthiness of his Son, would, notwithstanding, vouchsafe to grant.",
        "The oak for nothing ill, The osier good for twigs, the poplar for the mill.",
        "It was young counsel for the persons, and violent counsel for the matters.",
        "Shall I think the worls was made for one, And men are born for kings, as beasts for men, Not for protection, but to be devoured?",
        "For he writes not for money, nor for praise.",
        "We can do nothing against the truth, but for the truth.",
        "It is for the general good of human society, and consequently of particular persons, to be true and just; and it is for men's health to be temperate.",
        "Aristotle is for poetical justice.",
        "We sailed from Peru for China and Japan.",
        "And if any mischief follow, then thou shalt give life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot.",
        "We take a falling meteor for a star.",
        "If a man can be fully assured of anything for a truth, without having examined, what is there that he may not embrace for tru Locke. [1913 Webster]",
        "Most of our ingenious young men take up some cried-up English poet for their model.",
        "But let her go for an ungrateful woman.",
        "The writer will do what she please for all me.",
        "God's desertion shall, for aught he knows, the next minute supervene.",
        "For anything that legally appears to the contrary, it may be a contrivance to fright us.",
        "For many miles about There 's scarce a bush.",
        "Since, hired for life, thy servile muse sing.",
        "To guide the sun's bright chariot for a day.",
        "We 'll have a bib, for spoiling of thy doublet.",
        "As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord.",
        "For me, my stormy voyage at an end, I to the port of death securely tend.",
        "And for of long that way had walk Fairfax. [1913 Webster]",
        "And Heaven defend your good souls, that you think I will your serious and great business scant, For she with me.",
        "Give thanks unto the Lord; for he is good; for his mercy endureth forever.",
        "Heaven doth with us as we with torches do, Not light them for themselves; for if our virtues Did not go forth of us, 't were all alike As if we had them not."
    ],
    "etymology": "[AS. for, fore; akin to OS. for, fora, furi, D. voor, OHG. fora, G. vor, OHG. furi, G. f, Icel. fyrir, Sw. f, Dan. for, adv. f, Goth. fa, fa, L. pro, Gr. pra-. Fore, First, Foremost, Forth, Pro-.]"
}