{
    "word": "Frame",
    "definitions": [
        "To construct by fitting and uniting the several parts of the skeleton of any structure; specifically, in woodwork, to put together by cutting parts of one member to fit parts of another. See Dovetail, Halve, v. t., Miter, Tenon, Tooth, Tusk, Scarf, and Splice.",
        "To originate; to plan; to devise; to contrive; to compose; in a bad sense, to invent or fabricate, as something false.",
        "To fit to something else, or for some specific end; to adjust; to regulate; to shape; to conform.",
        "To cause; to bring about; to produce.",
        "To support.",
        "To provide with a frame, as a picture.",
        "to manufacture false evidence against (an innocent person), so as to make the person appear guilty of a crime. The act of framing a person is often referred to as a frame-up.",
        "To shape; to arrange, as the organs of speech.",
        "To proceed; to go.",
        "Anything composed of parts fitted and united together; a fabric; a structure; esp., the constructional system, whether of timber or metal, that gives to a building, vessel, etc., its model and strength; the skeleton of a structure.",
        "The bodily structure; physical constitution; make or build of a person.",
        "A kind of open case or structure made for admitting, inclosing, or supporting things, as that which incloses or contains a window, door, picture, etc.; that on which anything is held or stretched",
        "The skeleton structure which supports the boiler and machinery of a locomotive upon its wheels.",
        "A molding box or flask, which being filled with sand serves as a mold for castings.",
        "The ribs and stretchers of an umbrella or other structure with a fabric covering.",
        "A structure of four bars, adjustable in size, on which cloth, etc., is stretched for quilting, embroidery, etc.",
        "A glazed portable structure for protecting young plants from frost.",
        "A stand to support the type cases for use by the compositor.",
        "a pair of glasses without the lenses; that part of a pair of glasses that excludes the lenses.",
        "A term applied, especially in England, to certain machines built upon or within framework; as, a stocking frame; lace frame; spinning frame, etc.",
        "Form; shape; proportion; scheme; structure; constitution; system; as, a frameof government.",
        "Particular state or disposition, as of the mind; humor; temper; mood; as, to be always in a happy frame. Same as frame of mind",
        "Contrivance; the act of devising or scheming.",
        "In games: (a) In pool, the triangular form used in setting up the balls; also, the balls as set up, or the round of playing required to pocket them all; as, to play six frames in a game of 50 points. (b) In bowling, as in tenpins, one of the several innings forming a game."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "How many excellent reasonings are framed in the mind of a man of wisdom and study in a length of years.",
        "And frame my face to all occasions.",
        "We may in some measure frame our minds for the reception of happiness.",
        "The human mind is framed to be influenced.",
        "Fear frames disorder, and disorder wounds.",
        "That on a staff his feeble steps did frame.",
        "The bauty of this sinful dame Made many princes thither frame.",
        "These are thy glorious works, Parent of good, Almighty! thine this universal frame.",
        "Some bloody passion shakes your very frame.",
        "No frames could be strong enough to endure it.",
        "She that hath a heart of that fine frame To pay this debt of love but to a brother.",
        "Put your discourse into some frame.",
        "John the bastard Whose spirits toil in frame of villainies."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. framen, fremen, to execute, build, AS. fremman to further, perform, effect, fr. fram strong, valiant; akin to E. foremost, and prob. to AS. fram from, Icel. fremja, frama, to further, framr forward, G. fromm worthy, excellent, pious. See Foremost, From, and cf. Furnish.]"
}