{
    "word": "Full",
    "definitions": [
        "Abundantly furnished or provided; sufficient in quantity, quality, or degree; copious; plenteous; ample; adequate; as, a full meal; a full supply; a full voice; a full compensation; a house full of furniture.",
        "Not wanting in any essential quality; complete; entire; perfect; adequate; as, a full narrative; a person of full age; a full stop; a full face; the full moon.",
        "Sated; surfeited.",
        "Having the mind filled with ideas; stocked with knowledge; stored with information.",
        "Having the attention, thoughts, etc., absorbed in any matter, and the feelings more or less excited by it, as, to be full of some project.",
        "Filled with emotions.",
        "Impregnated; made pregnant.",
        "Complete measure; utmost extent; the highest state or degree.",
        "Quite; to the same degree; without abatement or diminution; with the whole force or effect; thoroughly; completely; exactly; entirely.",
        "To become full or wholly illuminated; as, the moon fulls at midnight.",
        "To thicken by moistening, heating, and pressing, as cloth; to mill; to make compact; to scour, cleanse, and thicken in a mill.",
        "To become fulled or thickened; as, this material fulls well."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Had the throne been full, their meeting would not have been regular.",
        "It came to pass, at the end of two full years, that Pharaoh dreamed.",
        "The man commands Like a full soldier.",
        "I can not Request a fuller satisfaction Than you have freely granted.",
        "I am full of the burnt offerings of rams.",
        "Reading maketh a full man.",
        "Every one is full of the miracles done by cold baths on decayed and weak constitutions.",
        "The heart is so full that a drop overfills it.",
        "Ilia, the fair, . . . full of Mars.",
        "The swan's-down feather, That stands upon the swell at full of tide.",
        "The pawn I proffer shall be full as good.",
        "The diapason closing full in man.",
        "Full in the center of the sacred wood."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. fullen, OF. fuler, fouler, F. fouler, LL. fullare, fr. L. fullo fuller, cloth fuller, cf. Gr. fullian to whiten as a fuller, to baptize, fullere a fuller. Cf. Defile to foul, Foil to frustrate, Fuller. n. ]"
}