{
    "word": "Game",
    "definitions": [
        "Crooked; lame; as, a game leg.",
        "Sport of any kind; jest, frolic.",
        "A contest, physical or mental, according to certain rules, for amusement, recreation, or for winning a stake; as, a game of chance; games of skill; field games, etc.",
        "The use or practice of such a game; a single match at play; a single contest; as, a game at cards.",
        "That which is gained, as the stake in a game; also, the number of points necessary to be scored in order to win a game; as, in short whist five points are game.",
        "In some games, a point credited on the score to the player whose cards counts up the highest.",
        "A scheme or art employed in the pursuit of an object or purpose; method of procedure; projected line of operations; plan; project.",
        "Animals pursued and taken by sportsmen; wild meats designed for, or served at, table.",
        "Having a resolute, unyielding spirit, like the gamecock; ready to fight to the last; plucky.",
        "Of or pertaining to such animals as are hunted for game, or to the act or practice of hunting.",
        "To play at any sport or diversion.",
        "To play for a stake or prize; to use cards, dice, billiards, or other instruments, according to certain rules, with a view to win money or some other thing waged upon the issue of the contest; to gamble."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "We have had pastimes here, and pleasant game.",
        "But war's a game, which, were their subject wise, Kings would not play at.",
        "Talk the game o'er between the deal.",
        "Your murderous game is nearly up.",
        "It was obviously Lord Macaulay's game to blacken the greatest literary champion of the cause he had set himself to attack.",
        "Those species of animals . . . distinguished from the rest by the well-known appellation of game.",
        "I was game . . . .I felt that I could have fought even to the death.",
        "God loved he best with all his whole hearte At alle times, though him gamed or smarte."
    ],
    "etymology": "[Cf. W. cam crooked, and E. gambol, n.]"
}