{
    "word": "Go",
    "definitions": [
        "To pass from one place to another; to be in motion; to be in a state not motionless or at rest; to proceed; to advance; to make progress; -- used, in various applications, of the movement of both animate and inanimate beings, by whatever means, and also of the movements of the mind; also figuratively applied.",
        "To move upon the feet, or step by step; to walk; also, to walk step by step, or leisurely.",
        "To be passed on fron one to another; to pass; to circulate; hence, with for, to have currency; to be taken, accepted, or regarded.",
        "To proceed or happen in a given manner; to fare; to move on or be carried on; to have course; to come to an issue or result; to succeed; to turn out.",
        "To proceed or tend toward a result, consequence, or product; to tend; to conduce; to be an ingredient; to avail; to apply; to contribute; -- often with the infinitive; as, this goes to show.",
        "To apply one's self; to set one's self; to undertake.",
        "To proceed by a mental operation; to pass in mind or by an act of the memory or imagination; -- generally with over or through.",
        "To be with young; to be pregnant; to gestate.",
        "To move from the person speaking, or from the point whence the action is contemplated; to pass away; to leave; to depart; -- in opposition to stay and come.",
        "To pass away; to depart forever; to be lost or ruined; to perish; to decline; to decease; to die.",
        "To reach; to extend; to lead; as, a line goes across the street; his land goes to the river; this road goes to New York.",
        "To have recourse; to resort; as, to go to law.",
        "To take, as a share in an enterprise; to undertake or become responsible for; to bear a part in.",
        "To bet or wager; as, I'll go you a shilling.",
        "Act; working; operation.",
        "A circumstance or occurrence; an incident.",
        "The fashion or mode; as, quite the go.",
        "Noisy merriment; as, a high go.",
        "A glass of spirits.",
        "Power of going or doing; energy; vitality; perseverance; push; as, there is no go in him.",
        "That condition in the course of the game when a player can not lay down a card which will not carry the aggregate count above thirty-one.",
        "Something that goes or is successful; a success; as, he made a go of it; also, an agreement."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "You know that love Will creep in service where it can not go.",
        "Thou must run to him; for thou hast staid so long that going will scarce serve the turn.",
        "He fell from running to going, and from going to clambering upon his hands and his knees.",
        "The man went among men for an old man in the days of Saul.",
        "[The money] should go according to its true value.",
        "How goes the night, boy ?",
        "I think, as the world goes, he was a good sort of man enough.",
        "Whether the cause goes for me or against me, you must pay me the reward.",
        "Against right reason all your counsels go.",
        "To master the foul flend there goeth some complement knowledge of theology.",
        "Seeing himself confronted by so many, like a resolute orator, he went not to denial, but to justify his cruel falsehood.",
        "By going over all these particulars, you may receive some tolerable satisfaction about this great subject.",
        "The fruit she goes with, I pray for heartily, that it may find Good time, and live.",
        "I will let you go, that ye may sacrifice to the Lord your God; . . . only ye shall not go very far away.",
        "By Saint George, he's gone! That spear wound hath our master sped.",
        "His amorous expressions go no further than virtue may allow.",
        "They never go about . . . to hide or palliate their vices.",
        "Then went this saying abroad among the brethren.",
        "He . . . went aside privately into a desert place.",
        "Nothing so ridiculous, . . . but it goes down whole with him for truth.",
        "The law shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.",
        "He was as ready to go in for statistics as for anything else.",
        "The leaders . . . will not go off until they hear you.",
        "The wedding went off much as such affairs do.",
        "It is not easy to make a simile go on all fours.",
        "There are other men fitter to go out than I.",
        "What went ye out for to see ?",
        "Life itself goes out at thy displeasure.",
        "I must not go over Jordan.",
        "Let me go over, and see the good land that is beyond Jordan.",
        "Ishmael . . . departed to go over to the Ammonites.",
        "If we go over the laws of Christianity, we shall find that . . . they enjoin the same thing.",
        "They to go equal shares in the booty.",
        "So gracious were the goes of marriage.",
        "This is a pretty go.",
        "go?"
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. gan, gon, AS. g, akin to D. gaan, G. gehn, gehen, OHG. g, g, SW. g, Dan. gaae; cf. Gr. kicha`nai to reach, overtake, Skr. h to go, AS. gangan, and E. gang. The past tense in AS., eode, is from the root i to go, as is also Goth. iddja went. a. Cf. Gang, v. i., Wend.]"
}