{
    "word": "Good",
    "definitions": [
        "Possessing desirable qualities; adapted to answer the end designed; promoting success, welfare, or happiness; serviceable; useful; fit; excellent; admirable; commendable; not bad, corrupt, evil, noxious, offensive, or troublesome, etc.",
        "Possessing moral excellence or virtue; virtuous; pious; religious; -- said of persons or actions.",
        "Kind; benevolent; humane; merciful; gracious; polite; propitious; friendly; well-disposed; -- often followed by to or toward, also formerly by unto.",
        "Serviceable; suited; adapted; suitable; of use; to be relied upon; -- followed especially by for.",
        "Clever; skillful; dexterous; ready; handy; -- followed especially by at.",
        "Adequate; sufficient; competent; sound; not fallacious; valid; in a commercial sense, to be depended on for the discharge of obligations incurred; having pecuniary ability; of unimpaired credit.",
        "Real; actual; serious; as in the phrases in good earnest; in good sooth.",
        "Not small, insignificant, or of no account; considerable; esp., in the phrases a good deal, a good way, a good degree, a good share or part, etc.",
        "Not lacking or deficient; full; complete.",
        "Not blemished or impeached; fair; honorable; unsullied; as in the phrases a good name, a good report, good repute, etc.",
        "That which possesses desirable qualities, promotes success, welfare, or happiness, is serviceable, fit, excellent, kind, benevolent, etc.; -- opposed to evil.",
        "Advancement of interest or happiness; welfare; prosperity; advantage; benefit; -- opposed to harm, etc.",
        "Wares; commodities; chattels; -- formerly used in the singular in a collective sense. In law, a comprehensive name for almost all personal property as distinguished from land or real property.",
        "Well, -- especially in the phrase as good, with a following as expressed or implied; equally well with as much advantage or as little harm as possible.",
        "To make good; to turn to good.",
        "To manure; to improve."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good.",
        "Good company, good wine, good welcome.",
        "In all things showing thyself a pattern of good works.",
        "The men were very good unto us.",
        "All quality that is good for anything is founded originally in merit.",
        "He . . . is a good workman; a very good tailor.",
        "Those are generally good at flattering who are good for nothing else.",
        "My reasons are both good and weighty.",
        "My meaning in saying he is a good man is . . . that he is sufficient . . . I think I may take his bond.",
        "Love no man in good earnest.",
        "Good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over.",
        "A good name is better than precious ointment",
        "The good woman never died after this, till she came to die for good and all.",
        "Distinguished by good humor and good breeding.",
        "My father always said I was born to be a good for nothing.",
        "The good nature and generosity which belonged to his character.",
        "The young count's good nature and easy persuadability were among his best characteristics.",
        "The good will of a trade is nothing more than the probability that the old customers will resort to the old place.",
        "Each word made good and true.",
        "Of no power to make his wishes good.",
        "I . . . would by combat make her good.",
        "Convenient numbers to make good the city.",
        "If ye think good, give me my price; and if not, forbear.",
        "There be many that say, Who will show us any good ?",
        "The good of the whole community can be promoted only by advancing the good of each of the members composing it.",
        "He hath made us spend much good.",
        "Thy lands and goods Are, by the laws of Venice, confiscate Unto the state of Venice.",
        "As good almost kill a man as kill a good book.",
        "They who counsel ye to such a suppressing, do as good as bid ye suppress yourselves."
    ],
    "etymology": "[AS. G, akin to D. goed, OS. g, OHG. guot, G. gut, Icel. g, Sw. & Dan. god, Goth. g; prob. orig., fitting, belonging together, and akin to E. gather. Gather.]"
}