{
    "word": "ground",
    "definitions": [
        "The surface of the earth; the outer crust of the globe, or some indefinite portion of it.",
        "A floor or pavement supposed to rest upon the earth.",
        "Any definite portion of the earth's surface; region; territory; country.",
        "A territory appropriated to, or resorted to, for a particular purpose; the field or place of action; as, a hunting or fishing ground; a play ground.",
        "Land; estate; possession; field; esp. (pl.), the gardens, lawns, fields, etc., belonging to a homestead; as, the grounds of the estate are well kept.",
        "The basis on which anything rests; foundation. Hence: The foundation of knowledge, belief, or conviction; a premise, reason, or datum; ultimate or first principle; cause of existence or occurrence; originating force or agency; as, the ground of my hope.",
        "That surface upon which the figures of a composition are set, and which relieves them by its plainness, being either of one tint or of tints but slightly contrasted with one another; as, crimson Bowers on a white ground.",
        "In sculpture, a flat surface upon which figures are raised in relief.",
        "In point lace, the net of small meshes upon which the embroidered pattern is applied; as, Brussels ground. See Brussels lace, under Brussels.",
        "A gummy composition spread over the surface of a metal to be etched, to prevent the acid from eating except where an opening is made by the needle.",
        "One of the pieces of wood, flush with the plastering, to which moldings, etc., are attached; -- usually in the plural.",
        "A composition in which the bass, consisting of a few bars of independent notes, is continually repeated to a varying melody.",
        "The tune on which descants are raised; the plain song.",
        "A conducting connection with the earth, whereby the earth is made part of an electrical circuit.",
        "Sediment at the bottom of liquors or liquids; dregs; lees; feces; as, coffee grounds.",
        "The pit of a theater.",
        "To lay, set, or run, on the ground.",
        "To found; to fix or set, as on a foundation, reason, or principle; to furnish a ground for; to fix firmly.",
        "To instruct in elements or first principles.",
        "To connect with the ground so as to make the earth a part of an electrical circuit.",
        "To cover with a ground, as a copper plate for etching (see Ground, n., 5); or as paper or other materials with a uniform tint as a preparation for ornament.",
        "To forbid (a pilot) to fly an airplane; -- usually as a disciplinary measure, or for reasons of ill health sufficient to interfere with performance.",
        "To forbid (aircraft) to fly; -- usually due to the unsafe condition of the aircraft or lack of conformity to safety regulations; as, the discovery of a crack in the wing of a Trijet caused the whole fleeet to be grounded for inspection.",
        "To temporarily restrict the activities of (a child), especially social activity outside the house; -- usually for bad or unsatisfactory conduct; as, Johnny was grounded for fighting at school and can't go to the movies for two weeks.",
        "To run aground; to strike the bottom and remain fixed; as, the ship grounded on the bar.",
        "imp. & p. p. of Grind."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "There was not a man to till the ground.",
        "The fire ran along upon the ground.",
        "From . . . old Euphrates, to the brook that parts Egypt from Syrian ground.",
        "Thy next design is on thy neighbor's grounds.",
        "On that ground I'll build a holy descant.",
        "There is no way for duty to prevail, and get ground of them, but by bidding higher.",
        "These nine . . . began to give me ground.",
        "Being rooted and grounded in love.",
        "So far from warranting any inference to the existence of a God, would, on the contrary, ground even an argument to his negation."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. ground, grund, AS. grund; akin to D. grond, OS., G., Sw., & Dan. grund, Icel. grunnr bottom, Goth. grundus (in composition); perh. orig. meaning, dust, gravel, and if so perh. akin to E. grind.]"
}