{
    "word": "Guard",
    "definitions": [
        "To protect from danger; to secure against surprise, attack, or injury; to keep in safety; to defend; to shelter; to shield from surprise or attack; to protect by attendance; to accompany for protection; to care for.",
        "To keep watch over, in order to prevent escape or restrain from acts of violence, or the like.",
        "To protect the edge of, esp. with an ornamental border; hence, to face or ornament with lists, laces, etc.",
        "To fasten by binding; to gird.",
        "One who, or that which, guards from injury, danger, exposure, or attack; defense; protection.",
        "A man, or body of men, stationed to protect or control a person or position; a watch; a sentinel.",
        "One who has charge of a mail coach or a railway train; a conductor.",
        "Any fixture or attachment designed to protect or secure against injury, soiling, or defacement, theft or loss",
        "That part of a sword hilt which protects the hand.",
        "Ornamental lace or hem protecting the edge of a garment.",
        "A chain or cord for fastening a watch to one's person or dress.",
        "A fence or rail to prevent falling from the deck of a vessel.",
        "An extension of the deck of a vessel beyond the hull; esp., in side-wheel steam vessels, the framework of strong timbers, which curves out on each side beyond the paddle wheel, and protects it and the shaft against collision.",
        "A plate of metal, beneath the stock, or the lock frame, of a gun or pistol, having a loop, called a bow, to protect the trigger.",
        "An interleaved strip at the back, as in a scrap book, to guard against its breaking when filled.",
        "A posture of defense in fencing, and in bayonet and saber exercise.",
        "An expression or admission intended to secure against objections or censure.",
        "Watch; heed; care; attention; as, to keep guard.",
        "The fibrous sheath which covers the phragmacone of the Belemnites."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "For Heaven still guards the right.",
        "The body of your discourse is sometime guarded with fragments, and the guards are but slightly basted on neither.",
        "His greatness was no guard to bar heaven's shaft.",
        "The guard which kept the door of the king's house.",
        "They have expressed themselves with as few guards and restrictions as I."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OF. guarder, garder, warder, F. garder, fr. OHG. wart to be on the watch, await, G. marten. See Ward, v. & n., and cf. Guard, n.]"
}