{
    "word": "Hack",
    "definitions": [
        "Unburned brick or tile, stacked up for drying.",
        "To cut irregulary, without skill or definite purpose; to notch; to mangle by repeated strokes of a cutting instrument; as, to hack a post.",
        "Fig.: To mangle in speaking.",
        "To program (a computer) for pleasure or compulsively; especially, to try to defeat the security systems and gain unauthorized access to a computer.",
        "To bear, physically or emotionally; as, he left the job because he couldn't hack the pressure.",
        "To kick the shins of (an opposing payer).",
        "To cough faintly and frequently, or in a short, broken manner; as, a hacking cough.",
        "A notch; a cut.",
        "An implement for cutting a notch; a large pick used in breaking stone.",
        "A hacking; a catch in speaking; a short, broken cough.",
        "A kick on the shins, or a cut from a kick.",
        "A clever computer program or routine within a program to accomplish an objective in a non-obvious fashion.",
        "A quick and inelegant, though functional solution to a programming problem.",
        "A taxicab.",
        "A horse, hackneyed or let out for common hire; also, a horse used in all kinds of work, or a saddle horse, as distinguished from hunting and carriage horses.",
        "A coach or carriage let for hire; a hackney coach; formerly, a coach with two seats inside facing each other; now, usually a taxicab.",
        "The driver of a hack; a taxi driver; a hackman.",
        "A bookmaker who hires himself out for any sort of literary work; an overworked man; a drudge.",
        "A procuress.",
        "To ride or drive as one does with a hack horse; to ride at an ordinary pace, or over the roads, as distinguished from riding across country or in military fashion.",
        "Hackneyed; hired; mercenary.",
        "To use as a hack; to let out for hire.",
        "To use frequently and indiscriminately, so as to render trite and commonplace.",
        "To be exposed or offered to common use for hire; to turn prostitute.",
        "To live the life of a drudge or hack."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "My sword hacked like a handsaw.",
        "On horse, on foot, in hacks and gilded chariots.",
        "Here lies poor Ned Purdon, from misery freed, Who long was a bookseller's hack.",
        "The word hacked of late."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. hakken, AS. haccian; akin to D. hakken, G. hacken, Dan. hakke, Sw. hacka, and perh. to E. hew. Cf. Hew to cut, Haggle.]"
}