{
    "word": "Heat",
    "definitions": [
        "The sensation caused by the force or influence of heat when excessive, or above that which is normal to the human body; the bodily feeling experienced on exposure to fire, the sun's rays, etc.; the reverse of cold.",
        "High temperature, as distinguished from low temperature, or cold; as, the heat of summer and the cold of winter; heat of the skin or body in fever, etc.",
        "Indication of high temperature; appearance, condition, or color of a body, as indicating its temperature; redness; high color; flush; degree of temperature to which something is heated, as indicated by appearance, condition, or otherwise.",
        "A single complete operation of heating, as at a forge or in a furnace; as, to make a horseshoe in a certain number of heats.",
        "A violent action unintermitted; a single effort; a single course in a race that consists of two or more courses; as, he won two heats out of three.",
        "Utmost violence; rage; vehemence; as, the heat of battle or party.",
        "Agitation of mind; inflammation or excitement; exasperation.",
        "Animation, as in discourse; ardor; fervency; as, in the heat of argument.",
        "Sexual excitement in animals; readiness for sexual activity; estrus or rut.",
        "Fermentation.",
        "Strong psychological pressure, as in a police investigation; as, when they turned up the heat, he took it on the lam.",
        "To excite or make hot by action or emotion; to make feverish.",
        "To excite ardor in; to rouse to action; to excite to excess; to inflame, as the passions.",
        "To grow warm or hot by the action of fire or friction, etc., or the communication of heat; as, the iron or the water heats slowly.",
        "To grow warm or hot by fermentation, or the development of heat by chemical action; as, green hay heats in a mow, and manure in the dunghill."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Else how had the world . . . Avoided pinching cold and scorching heat!",
        "It has raised . . . heats in their faces.",
        "The heats smiths take of their iron are a blood-red heat, a white-flame heat, and a sparkling or welding heat.",
        "Many causes . . . for refreshment betwixt the heats.",
        "[He] struck off at one heat the matchless tale of",
        "With all the strength and heat of eloquence.",
        "Heat me these irons hot.",
        "Pray, walk softly; do not heat your blood.",
        "A noble emulation heats your breast."
    ],
    "etymology": null
}