{
    "word": "Hedge",
    "definitions": [
        "A thicket of bushes, usually thorn bushes; especially, such a thicket planted as a fence between any two portions of land; and also any sort of shrubbery, as evergreens, planted in a line or as a fence; particularly, such a thicket planted round a field to fence it, or in rows to separate the parts of a garden.",
        "To inclose or separate with a hedge; to fence with a thickly set line or thicket of shrubs or small trees; as, to hedge a field or garden.",
        "To obstruct, as a road, with a barrier; to hinder from progress or success; -- sometimes with up and out.",
        "To surround for defense; to guard; to protect; to hem (in).",
        "To surround so as to prevent escape.",
        "To protect oneself against excessive loss in an activity by taking a countervailing action; as, to hedge an investment denominated in a foreign currency by buying or selling futures in that currency; to hedge a donation to one political party by also donating to the opposed political party.",
        "To shelter one's self from danger, risk, duty, responsibility, etc., as if by hiding in or behind a hedge; to skulk; to slink; to shirk obligations.",
        "To reduce the risk of a wager by making a bet against the side or chance one has bet on.",
        "To use reservations and qualifications in one's speech so as to avoid committing one's self to anything definite."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The roughest berry on the rudest hedge.",
        "Through the verdant maze Of sweetbrier hedges I pursue my walk.",
        "I will hedge up thy way with thorns.",
        "Lollius Urbius . . . drew another wall . . . to hedge out incursions from the north.",
        "That is a law to hedge in the cuckoo.",
        "I myself sometimes, leaving the fear of God on the left hand and hiding mine honor in my necessity, am fain to shuffle, to hedge and to lurch.",
        "The Heroic Stanzas read much more like an elaborate attempt to hedge between the parties than . . . to gain favor from the Roundheads."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. hegge, AS. hecg; akin to haga an inclosure, E. haw, AS. hege hedge, E. haybote, D. hegge, OHG. hegga, G. hecke. Haw a hedge.]"
}