{
    "word": "Hit",
    "definitions": [
        "It.",
        "3d pers. sing. pres. of Hide, contracted from hideth.",
        "To reach with a stroke or blow; to strike or touch, usually with force; especially, to reach or touch (an object aimed at).",
        "To reach or attain exactly; to meet according to the occasion; to perform successfully; to attain to; to accord with; to be conformable to; to suit.",
        "To guess; to light upon or discover.",
        "To take up, or replace by a piece belonging to the opposing player; -- said of a single unprotected piece on a point.",
        "To meet or come in contact; to strike; to clash; -- followed by against or on.",
        "To meet or reach what was aimed at or desired; to succeed, -- often with implied chance, or luck.",
        "A striking against; the collision of one body against another; the stroke that touches anything.",
        "A stroke of success in an enterprise, as by a fortunate chance; as, he made a hit;",
        "A performance, as a musical recording, movie, or play, which achieved great popularity or acclaim; also used of books or objects of commerce which become big sellers; as, the new notebook computer was a big hit with business travellers.",
        "A peculiarly apt expression or turn of thought; a phrase which hits the mark; as, a happy hit.",
        "A game won at backgammon after the adversary has removed some of his men. It counts less than a gammon.",
        "A striking of the ball; as, a safe hit; a foul hit; -- sometimes used specifically for a base hit.",
        "An act of murder performed for hire, esp. by a professional assassin."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "I think you have hit the mark.",
        "Birds learning tunes, and their endeavors to hit the notes right.",
        "There you hit him; . . . that argument never fails with him.",
        "Whose saintly visage is too bright To hit the sense of human sight.",
        "He scarcely hit my humor.",
        "If bodies be extension alone, how can they move and hit one against another?",
        "Corpuscles, meeting with or hitting on those bodies, become conjoined with them.",
        "And oft it hits Where hope is coldest and despair most fits.",
        "And millions miss for one that hits.",
        "So he the famed Cilician fencer praised, And, at each hit, with wonder seems amazed.",
        "What late he called a blessing, now was wit, And God's good providence, a lucky hit."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. hitten, hutten, of Scand. origin; cf. Dan. hitte to hit, find, Sw. & Icel. hitta.]"
}