{
    "word": "Hold",
    "definitions": [
        "To cause to remain in a given situation, position, or relation, within certain limits, or the like; to prevent from falling or escaping; to sustain; to restrain; to keep in the grasp; to retain.",
        "To retain in one's keeping; to maintain possession of, or authority over; not to give up or relinquish; to keep; to defend.",
        "To have; to possess; to be in possession of; to occupy; to derive title to; as, to hold office.",
        "To impose restraint upon; to limit in motion or action; to bind legally or morally; to confine; to restrain.",
        "To maintain in being or action; to carry on; to prosecute, as a course of conduct or an argument; to continue; to sustain.",
        "To prosecute, have, take, or join in, as something which is the result of united action; as to, hold a meeting, a festival, a session, etc.; hence, to direct and bring about officially; to conduct or preside at; as, the general held a council of war; a judge holds a court; a clergyman holds a service.",
        "To receive and retain; to contain as a vessel; as, this pail holds milk; hence, to be able to receive and retain; to have capacity or containing power for.",
        "To accept, as an opinion; to be the adherent of, openly or privately; to persist in, as a purpose; to maintain; to sustain.",
        "To consider; to regard; to esteem; to account; to think; to judge.",
        "To bear, carry, or manage; as he holds himself erect; he holds his head high.",
        "In general, to keep one's self in a given position or condition; to remain fixed. Hence:",
        "Not to move; to halt; to stop; -- mostly in the imperative.",
        "Not to give way; not to part or become separated; to remain unbroken or unsubdued.",
        "Not to fail or be found wanting; to continue; to last; to endure a test or trial; to abide; to persist.",
        "Not to fall away, desert, or prove recreant; to remain attached; to cleave; -- often with with, to, or for.",
        "To restrain one's self; to refrain.",
        "To derive right or title; -- generally with of.",
        "The authority or ground to take or keep; claim.",
        "Binding power and influence.",
        "Something that may be grasped; means of support.",
        "A place of confinement; a prison; confinement; custody; guard.",
        "A place of security; a fortified place; a fort; a castle; -- often called a stronghold.",
        "A character [thus pause, and corona."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The loops held one curtain to another.",
        "Thy right hand shall hold me.",
        "They all hold swords, being expert in war.",
        "In vain he seeks, that having can not hold.",
        "France, thou mayst hold a serpent by the tongue, . . . A fasting tiger safer by the tooth, Than keep in peace that hand which thou dost hold.",
        "We mean to hold what anciently we claim Of deity or empire.",
        "This noble merchant held a noble house.",
        "Of him to hold his seigniory for a yearly tribute.",
        "And now the strand, and now the plain, they held.",
        "We can not hold mortality's strong hand.",
        "Death! what do'st? O, hold thy blow.",
        "He had not sufficient judgment and self-command to hold his tongue.",
        "Hold not thy peace, and be not still.",
        "Seedtime and harvest, heat and hoary frost, Shall hold their course.",
        "I would hold more talk with thee.",
        "Broken cisterns that can hold no water.",
        "One sees more devils than vast hell can hold.",
        "Stand fast and hold the traditions which ye have been taught.",
        "But still he held his purpose to depart.",
        "I hold him but a fool.",
        "I shall never hold that man my friend.",
        "The Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain.",
        "Let him hold his fingers thus.",
        "O, fie! to receive favors, return falsehoods, And hold a lady in hand.",
        "And damned be him that first cries, Hold, enough!",
        "Our force by land hath nobly held.",
        "While our obedience holds.",
        "The rule holds in land as all other commodities.",
        "He will hold to the one and despise the other.",
        "His dauntless heart would fain have held From weeping, but his eyes rebelled.",
        "My crown is absolute, and holds of none.",
        "His imagination holds immediately from nature.",
        "Ne have I not twelve pence within mine hold.",
        "Thou should'st lay hold upon him.",
        "My soul took hold on thee.",
        "Take fast hold of instruction.",
        "The law hath yet another hold on you.",
        "Fear . . . by which God and his laws take the surest hold of.",
        "If a man be upon an high place without rails or good hold, he is ready to fall.",
        "They . . . put them in hold unto the next day.",
        "King Richard, he is in the mighty hold Of Bolingbroke.",
        "New comers in an ancient hold"
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. haldan, D. houden, OHG. hoten, Icel. halda, Dan. holde, Sw. h, Goth. haldan to feed, tend (the cattle); of unknown origin. Gf. Avast, Halt, Hod.]"
}