{
    "word": "Honor",
    "definitions": [
        "That which rightfully attracts esteem, respect, or consideration; self-respect; dignity; courage; fidelity; especially, excellence of character; high moral worth; virtue; nobleness.",
        "Purity; chastity; -- a term applied mostly to women, but becoming uncommon in usage.",
        "A nice sense of what is right, just, and true, with course of life correspondent thereto; strict conformity to the duty imposed by conscience, position, or privilege; integrity; uprightness; trustworthness.",
        "That to which esteem or consideration is paid; distinguished position; high rank.",
        "Fame; reputation; credit.",
        "A token of esteem paid to worth; a mark of respect; a ceremonial sign of consideration; as, he wore an honor on his breast; military honors; civil honors.",
        "A cause of respect and fame; a glory; an excellency; an ornament; as, he is an honor to his nation.",
        "A title applied to the holders of certain honorable civil offices, or to persons of rank; as, His Honor the Mayor. See Note under Honorable.",
        "A seigniory or lordship held of the king, on which other lordships and manors depended.",
        "Academic or university prizes or distinctions; as, honors in classics.",
        "The ace, king, queen, and jack of trumps. The ten and nine are sometimes called Dutch honors.",
        "To regard or treat with honor, esteem, or respect; to revere; to treat with deference and submission; when used of the Supreme Being, to reverence; to adore; to worship.",
        "To dignify; to raise to distinction or notice; to bestow honor upon; to elevate in rank or station; to ennoble; to exalt; to glorify; hence, to do something to honor; to treat in a complimentary manner or with civility.",
        "To accept and pay when due; as, to honora bill of exchange."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "A prophet is not without honor, save in his own country.",
        "Godlike erect, with native honor clad.",
        "If she have forgot Honor and virtue.",
        "Say, what is honor? 'T is the finest sense Of justice which the human mind can frame, Intent each lurking frailty to disclaim, And guard the way of life from all offense Suffered or done.",
        "I could not love thee, dear, so much, Loved I not honor more.",
        "I have given thee . . . both riches, and honor.",
        "Thou art clothed with honor and majesty.",
        "Some in their actions do woo, and affect honor and reputation.",
        "If my honor is meant anything distinct from conscience, 't is no more than a regard to the censure and esteem of the world.",
        "Honor thy father and thy mother.",
        "That all men should honor the Son, even as they honor the Father.",
        "It is a custom More honor'd in the breach than the observance.",
        "Thus shall it be done to the man whom the king delighten to honor.",
        "The name of Cassius honors this corruption."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. honouren, onouren, OF. honorer, honourer, F. honorer, fr. L. honorare, fr. honor, n.]"
}