{
    "word": "House",
    "definitions": [
        "A structure intended or used as a habitation or shelter for animals of any kind; but especially, a building or edifice for the habitation of man; a dwelling place, a mansion.",
        "Household affairs; domestic concerns; particularly in the phrase to keep house. See below.",
        "Those who dwell in the same house; a household.",
        "A family of ancestors, descendants, and kindred; a race of persons from the same stock; a tribe; especially, a noble family or an illustrious race; as, the house of Austria; the house of Hanover; the house of Israel.",
        "One of the estates of a kingdom or other government assembled in parliament or legislature; a body of men united in a legislative capacity; as, the House of Lords; the House of Commons; the House of Representatives; also, a quorum of such a body. See Congress, and Parliament.",
        "A firm, or commercial establishment.",
        "A public house; an inn; a hotel.",
        "A twelfth part of the heavens, as divided by six circles intersecting at the north and south points of the horizon, used by astrologers in noting the positions of the heavenly bodies, and casting horoscopes or nativities. The houses were regarded as fixed in respect to the horizon, and numbered from the one at the eastern horizon, called the ascendant, first house, or house of life, downward, or in the direction of the earth's revolution, the stars and planets passing through them in the reverse order every twenty-four hours.",
        "A square on a chessboard, regarded as the proper place of a piece.",
        "An audience; an assembly of hearers, as at a lecture, a theater, etc.; as, a thin or a full house.",
        "The body, as the habitation of the soul.",
        "The grave.",
        "To take or put into a house; to shelter under a roof; to cover from the inclemencies of the weather; to protect by covering; as, to house one's family in a comfortable home; to house farming utensils; to house cattle.",
        "To drive to a shelter.",
        "To admit to residence; to harbor.",
        "To deposit and cover, as in the grave.",
        "To stow in a safe place; to take down and make safe; as, to house the upper spars.",
        "To take shelter or lodging; to abide to dwell; to lodge.",
        "To have a position in one of the houses. See House, n., 8."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Houses are built to live in; not to look on.",
        "Bees with smoke and doves with noisome stench Are from their hives and houses driven away.",
        "One that feared God with all his house.",
        "The last remaining pillar of their house, The one transmitter of their ancient name.",
        "This mortal house I'll ruin, Do C Shak. [1913 Webster]",
        "At length have housed me in a humble shed.",
        "House your choicest carnations, or rather set them under a penthouse.",
        "Palladius wished him to house all the Helots.",
        "You shall not house with me."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. hous, hus, AS. h; akin to OS. & OFries. h, D. huis, OHG. h, G. haus, Icel. h, Sw. hus, Dan. huus, Goth. gudh, house of God, temple; and prob. to E. hide to conceal. See Hide, and cf. Hoard, Husband, Hussy, Husting.]"
}