{
    "word": "Institute",
    "definitions": [
        "To set up; to establish; to ordain; as, to institute laws, rules, etc.",
        "To originate and establish; to found; to organize; as, to institute a court, or a society.",
        "To nominate; to appoint.",
        "To begin; to commence; to set on foot; as, to institute an inquiry; to institute a suit.",
        "To ground or establish in principles and rudiments; to educate; to instruct.",
        "To invest with the spiritual charge of a benefice, or the care of souls.",
        "The act of instituting; institution.",
        "That which is instituted, established, or fixed, as a law, habit, or custom.",
        "Hence: An elementary and necessary principle; a precept, maxim, or rule, recognized as established and authoritative; usually in the plural, a collection of such principles and precepts; esp., a comprehensive summary of legal principles and decisions; as, the Institutes of Justinian; Coke's Institutes of the Laws of England. Cf. Digest, n.",
        "An institution; a society established for the promotion of learning, art, science, etc.; a college; as, the Institute of Technology; The Massachusetts Institute of Technology; also, a building owned or occupied by such an institute; as, the Cooper Institute.",
        "The person to whom an estate is first given by destination or limitation."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "They have but few laws. For to a people so instruct and institute, very few to suffice.",
        "Whenever any from of government becomes destructive of these ends it is the right of the people to alter or to abolish it, and to institute a new government.",
        "We institute your Grace To be our regent in these parts of France.",
        "And haply institute A course of learning and ingenious studies.",
        "If children were early instituted, knowledge would insensibly insinuate itself.",
        "They made a sort of institute and digest of anarchy.",
        "To make the Stoics' institutes thy own."
    ],
    "etymology": "[L. institutum: cf. F. institut. See Institute, v. t. & a.]"
}