{
    "word": "Interest",
    "definitions": [
        "To engage the attention of; to awaken interest in; to excite emotion or passion in, in behalf of a person or thing; as, the subject did not interest him; to interest one in charitable work.",
        "To be concerned with or engaged in; to affect; to concern; to excite; -- often used impersonally.",
        "To cause or permit to share.",
        "Excitement of feeling, whether pleasant or painful, accompanying special attention to some object; concern; a desire to learn more about a topic or engage often in an activity.",
        "Participation in advantage, profit, and responsibility; share; portion; part; as, an interest in a brewery; he has parted with his interest in the stocks.",
        "Advantage, personal or general; good, regarded as a selfish benefit; profit; benefit.",
        "A fee paid for the use of money; a fee paid for a loan; -- usually reckoned as a percentage; as, interest at five per cent per annum on ten thousand dollars.",
        "Any excess of advantage over and above an exact equivalent for what is given or rendered.",
        "The persons interested in any particular business or measure, taken collectively; as, the iron interest; the cotton interest."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "To love our native country . . . to be interested in its concerns is natural to all men.",
        "A goddess who used to interest herself in marriages.",
        "Or rather, gracious sir, Create me to this glory, since my cause Doth interest this fair quarrel.",
        "The mystical communion of all faithful men is such as maketh every one to be interested in those precious blessings which any one of them receiveth at God's hands.",
        "So much interest have I in thy sorrow.",
        "Divisions hinder the common interest and public good.",
        "When interest calls of all her sneaking train.",
        "They have told their money, and let out Their coin upon large interest.",
        "You shall have your desires with interest."
    ],
    "etymology": "[From interess'd, p. p. of the older form interess, fr. F. int, L. interesse. See Interest, n.]"
}