{
    "word": "Judgment",
    "definitions": [
        "The act of judging; the operation of the mind, involving comparison and discrimination, by which a knowledge of the values and relations of things, whether of moral qualities, intellectual concepts, logical propositions, or material facts, is obtained; as, by careful judgment he avoided the peril; by a series of wrong judgments he forfeited confidence.",
        "The power or faculty of performing such operations (see 1); esp., when unqualified, the faculty of judging or deciding rightly, justly, or wisely; good sense; as, a man of judgment; a politician without judgment.",
        "The conclusion or result of judging; an opinion; a decision.",
        "The act of determining, as in courts of law, what is conformable to law and justice; also, the determination, decision, or sentence of a court, or of a judge; the mandate or sentence of God as the judge of all.",
        "That act of the mind by which two notions or ideas which are apprehended as distinct are compared for the purpose of ascertaining their agreement or disagreement. See 1. The comparison may be threefold: (1) Of individual objects forming a concept. (2) Of concepts giving what is technically called a judgment. (3) Of two judgments giving an inference. Judgments have been further classed as analytic, synthetic, and identical.",
        "That power or faculty by which knowledge dependent upon comparison and discrimination is acquired. See 2.",
        "A calamity regarded as sent by God, by way of recompense for wrong committed; a providential punishment.",
        "The final award; the last sentence."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "I oughte deme, of skilful jugement, That in the salte sea my wife is deed.",
        "He shall judge thy people with righteousness and thy poor with judgment.",
        "Hernia. I would my father look'd but with my eyes. Theseus. Rather your eyes must with his judgment look.",
        "She in my judgment was as fair as you.",
        "Who first his judgment asked, and then a place.",
        "In judgments between rich and poor, consider not what the poor man needs, but what is his own.",
        "Most heartily I do beseech the court To give the judgment.",
        "A judgment is the mental act by which one thing is affirmed or denied of another.",
        "The power by which we are enabled to perceive what is true or false, probable or improbable, is called by logicians the faculty of judgment."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. jugement, F. jugement, LL. judicamentum, fr. L. judicare. See Judge, v. i.]"
}