{
    "word": "Judge",
    "definitions": [
        "A public officer who is invested with authority to hear and determine litigated causes, and to administer justice between parties in courts held for that purpose.",
        "One who has skill, knowledge, or experience, sufficient to decide on the merits of a question, or on the quality or value of anything; one who discerns properties or relations with skill and readiness; a connoisseur; an expert; a critic.",
        "A person appointed to decide in a trial of skill, speed, etc., between two or more parties; an umpire; as, a judge in a horse race.",
        "One of the supreme magistrates, with both civil and military powers, who governed Israel for more than four hundred years.",
        "The title of the seventh book of the Old Testament; the Book of Judges.",
        "To hear and determine, as in causes on trial; to decide as a judge; to give judgment; to pass sentence.",
        "To assume the right to pass judgment on another; to sit in judgment or commendation; to criticise or pass adverse judgment upon others. See Judge, v. t., 3.",
        "To compare facts or ideas, and perceive their relations and attributes, and thus distinguish truth from falsehood; to determine; to discern; to distinguish; to form an opinion about.",
        "To hear and determine by authority, as a case before a court, or a controversy between two parties.",
        "To examine and pass sentence on; to try; to doom.",
        "To arrogate judicial authority over; to sit in judgment upon; to be censorious toward.",
        "To determine upon or deliberation; to esteem; to think; to reckon.",
        "To exercise the functions of a magistrate over; to govern."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The parts of a judge in hearing are four: to direct the evidence; to moderate length, repetition, or impertinency of speech; to recapitulate, select, and collate the material points of that which hath been said; and to give the rule or sentence.",
        "A man who is no judge of law may be a good judge of poetry, or eloquence, or of the merits of a painting.",
        "The Lord judge between thee and me.",
        "Father, who art judge Of all things made, and judgest only right!",
        "Forbear to judge, for we are sinners all.",
        "Judge not according to the appearance.",
        "She is wise if I can judge of her.",
        "God shall judge the righteous and the wicked.",
        "To bring my whole cause 'fore his holiness, And to be judged by him.",
        "Judge not, that ye be not judged.",
        "If ye have judged me to be faithful to the Lord.",
        "Make us a king to judge us."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. jugen, OF. jugier, F. juger, L. judicare, fr. judex judge; jus law or right + dicare to proclaim, pronounce, akin to dicere to say. See Just, a., and Diction, and cf. Judicial.]"
}