{
    "word": "Keep",
    "definitions": [
        "To hold; to restrain from departure or removal; not to let go of; to retain in one's power or possession; not to lose; to retain; to detain.",
        "To cause to remain in a given situation or condition; to maintain unchanged; to hold or preserve in any state or tenor.",
        "To have in custody; to have in some place for preservation; to take charge of.",
        "To preserve from danger, harm, or loss; to guard.",
        "To preserve from discovery or publicity; not to communicate, reveal, or betray, as a secret.",
        "To attend upon; to have the care of; to tend.",
        "To record transactions, accounts, or events in; as, to keep books, a journal, etc.; also, to enter (as accounts, records, etc. ) in a book.",
        "To maintain, as an establishment, institution, or the like; to conduct; to manage; as, to keep store.",
        "To supply with necessaries of life; to entertain; as, to keep boarders.",
        "To have in one's service; to have and maintain, as an assistant, a servant, a mistress, a horse, etc.",
        "To have habitually in stock for sale.",
        "To continue in, as a course or mode of action; not to intermit or fall from; to hold to; to maintain; as, to keep silence; to keep one's word; to keep possession.",
        "To observe; to adhere to; to fulfill; not to swerve from or violate; to practice or perform, as duty; not to neglect; to be faithful to.",
        "To confine one's self to; not to quit; to remain in; as, to keep one's house, room, bed, etc.; hence, to haunt; to frequent.",
        "To observe duly, as a festival, etc.; to celebrate; to solemnize; as, to keep a feast.",
        "To remain in any position or state; to continue; to abide; to stay; as, to keep at a distance; to keep aloft; to keep near; to keep in the house; to keep before or behind; to keep in favor; to keep out of company, or out reach.",
        "To last; to endure; to remain unimpaired.",
        "To reside for a time; to lodge; to dwell.",
        "To take care; to be solicitous; to watch.",
        "To be in session; as, school keeps to-day.",
        "The act or office of keeping; custody; guard; care; heed; charge.",
        "The state of being kept; hence, the resulting condition; case; as, to be in good keep.",
        "The means or provisions by which one is kept; maintenance; support; as, the keep of a horse.",
        "That which keeps or protects; a stronghold; a fortress; a castle; specifically, the strongest and securest part of a castle, often used as a place of residence by the lord of the castle, especially during a siege; the dungeon. See Illust. of Castle.",
        "That which is kept in charge; a charge.",
        "A cap for retaining anything, as a journal box, in place."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "I kepe not of armes for to yelp [boast].",
        "If we lose the field, We can not keep the town.",
        "That I may know what keeps me here with you.",
        "If we would weigh and keep in our minds what we are considering, that would instruct us.",
        "His loyalty he kept, his love, his zeal.",
        "Keep a stiff rein, and move but gently on.",
        "The crown of Stephanus, first king of Hungary, was always kept in the castle of Vicegrade.",
        "Behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee.",
        "Great are thy virtues . . . though kept from man.",
        "And the Lord God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden, to dress it and to keep it.",
        "In her girlish age, she kept sheep on the moor.",
        "Like a pedant that keeps a school.",
        "Every one of them kept house by himself.",
        "I keep but three men and a boy.",
        "Both day and night did we keep company.",
        "Within this portal as I kept my watch.",
        "I have kept the faith.",
        "Him whom to love is to obey, and keep His great command.",
        "'Tis hallowed ground; Fairies, and fawns, and satyrs do it keep.",
        "I went with them to the house of God . . . with a multitude that kept holyday.",
        "If the malt be not thoroughly dried, the ale it makes will not keep.",
        "Knock at his study, where, they say, he keeps.",
        "Keep that the lusts choke not the word of God that is in us.",
        "Pan, thou god of shepherds all, Which of our tender lambkins takest keep.",
        "Grass equal to the keep of seven cows.",
        "I performed some services to the college in return for my keep.",
        "The prison strong, Within whose keep the captive knights were laid.",
        "The lower chambers of those gloomy keeps.",
        "I think . . . the keep, or principal part of a castle, was so called because the lord and his domestic circle kept, abode, or lived there.",
        "Often he used of his keep A sacrifice to bring."
    ],
    "etymology": null
}