{
    "word": "Knot",
    "definitions": [
        "A bond of union; a connection; a tie.",
        "Something not easily solved; an intricacy; a difficulty; a perplexity; a problem.",
        "A figure the lines of which are interlaced or intricately interwoven, as in embroidery, gardening, etc.",
        "A cluster of persons or things; a collection; a group; a hand; a clique; as, a knot of politicians.",
        "A portion of a branch of a tree that forms a mass of woody fiber running at an angle with the grain of the main stock and making a hard place in the timber. A loose knot is generally the remains of a dead branch of a tree covered by later woody growth.",
        "A knob, lump, swelling, or protuberance.",
        "A protuberant joint in a plant.",
        "The point on which the action of a story depends; the gist of a matter.",
        "See Node.",
        "A division of the log line, serving to measure the rate of the vessel's motion. Each knot on the line bears the same proportion to a mile that thirty seconds do to an hour. The number of knots which run off from the reel in half a minute, therefore, shows the number of miles the vessel sails in an hour.",
        "A nautical mile, or 6080.27 feet; as, when a ship goes nautical eight miles an hour, her speed is said to be eight knots.",
        "A kind of epaulet. See Shoulder knot.",
        "A sandpiper (Tringa canutus), found in the northern parts of all the continents, in summer. It is grayish or ashy above, with the rump and upper tail coverts white, barred with dusky. The lower parts are pale brown, with the flanks and under tail coverts white. When fat it is prized by epicures. Called also dunne.",
        "To tie in or with, or form into, a knot or knots; to form a knot on, as a rope; to entangle.",
        "To unite closely; to knit together.",
        "To entangle or perplex; to puzzle.",
        "To form knots or joints, as in a cord, a plant, etc.; to become entangled.",
        "To knit knots for fringe or trimming.",
        "To copulate; -- said of toads."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Ere we knit the knot that can never be loosed.",
        "Knots worthy of solution.",
        "A man shall be perplexed with knots, and problems of business, and contrary affairs.",
        "Flowers worthy of paradise, which, not nice art In beds and curious knots, but nature boon Poured forth profuse on hill, and dale, and plain.",
        "His ancient knot of dangerous adversaries.",
        "Palms in cluster, knots of Paradise.",
        "As they sat together in small, separate knots, they discussed doctrinal and metaphysical points of belief.",
        "With lips serenely placid, felt the knot Climb in her throat.",
        "I shoulde to the knotte condescend, And maken of her walking soon an end.",
        "The knot that called was Canutus' bird of old, Of that great king of Danes his name that still doth hold, His appetite to please that far and near was sought.",
        "As tight as I could knot the noose.",
        "Cut hay when it begins to knot."
    ],
    "etymology": null
}