{
    "word": "Liberty",
    "definitions": [
        "Freedom from imprisonment, bonds, or other restraint upon locomotion.",
        "A privilege conferred by a superior power; permission granted; leave; as, liberty given to a child to play, or to a witness to leave a court, and the like.",
        "Privilege; exemption; franchise; immunity enjoyed by prescription or by grant; as, the liberties of the commercial cities of Europe.",
        "The place within which certain immunities are enjoyed, or jurisdiction is exercised.",
        "A certain amount of freedom; permission to go freely within certain limits; also, the place or limits within which such freedom is exercised; as, the liberties of a prison.",
        "A privilege or license in violation of the laws of etiquette or propriety; as, to permit, or take, a liberty.",
        "The power of choice; freedom from necessity; freedom from compulsion or constraint in willing.",
        "A curve or arch in a bit to afford room for the tongue of the horse.",
        "Leave of absence; permission to go on shore."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "But ye . . . caused every man his servant, and every man his handmaid whom he had set at liberty at their pleasure, to return, and brought them into subjection.",
        "Delivered fro the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the sons of God.",
        "Being pent from liberty, as I am now.",
        "His majesty gave not an entire county to any; much less did he grant . . . any extraordinary liberties.",
        "Brought forth into some public or open place within the liberty of the city, and there . . . burned.",
        "He was repeatedly provoked into striking those who had taken liberties with him.",
        "The idea of liberty is the idea of a power in any agent to do or forbear any particular action, according to the determination or thought of the mind, whereby either of them is preferred to the other.",
        "This liberty of judgment did not of necessity lead to lawlessness."
    ],
    "etymology": null
}