{
    "word": "Lie",
    "definitions": [
        "A fiction; a fable; an untruth.",
        "Anything which misleads or disappoints.",
        "To utter falsehood with an intention to deceive; to say or do that which is intended to deceive another, when he a right to know the truth, or when morality requires a just representation.",
        "To rest extended on the ground, a bed, or any support; to be, or to put one's self, in an horizontal position, or nearly so; to be prostate; to be stretched out; -- often with down, when predicated of living creatures; as, the book lies on the table; the snow lies on the roof; he lies in his coffin.",
        "To be situated; to occupy a certain place; as, Ireland lies west of England; the meadows lie along the river; the ship lay in port.",
        "To abide; to remain for a longer or shorter time; to be in a certain state or condition; as, to lie waste; to lie fallow; to lie open; to lie hid; to lie grieving; to lie under one's displeasure; to lie at the mercy of the waves; the paper does not lie smooth on the wall.",
        "To be or exist; to belong or pertain; to have an abiding place; to consist; -- with in.",
        "To lodge; to sleep.",
        "To be still or quiet, like one lying down to rest.",
        "To be sustainable; to be capable of being maintained."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The proper notion of a lie is an endeavoring to deceive another by signifying that to him as true, which we ourselves think not to be so.",
        "It is willful deceit that makes a lie. A man may act a lie, as by pointing his finger in a wrong direction when a traveler inquires of him his road.",
        "Wishing this lie of life was o'er.",
        "The watchful traveler . . . Lay down again, and closed his weary eyes.",
        "Envy lies between beings equal in nature, though unequal in circumstances.",
        "He that thinks that diversion may not lie in hard labor, forgets the early rising and hard riding of huntsmen.",
        "Whiles I was now trifling at home, I saw London, . . . where I lay one night only.",
        "Mr. Quinion lay at our house that night.",
        "The wind is loud and will not lie.",
        "What he gets more of her than sharp words, let it lie on my head.",
        "He surveyed with his own eyes . . . the lie of the country on the side towards Thrace."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. lien, li, le, leo, AS. le; akin to D. liegen, OS. & OHG. liogan, G. l, Icel. lj, Sw. ljuga, Dan. lyve, Goth. liugan, Russ. lgate.]"
}