{
    "word": "Like",
    "definitions": [
        "Equal, or nearly equal; as, fields of like extent.",
        "Having probability; affording probability; probable; likely.",
        "Inclined toward; disposed to; as, to feel like taking a walk.",
        "That which is equal or similar to another; the counterpart; an exact resemblance; a copy.",
        "A liking; a preference; inclination; -- usually in pl.; as, we all have likes and dislikes.",
        "The stroke which equalizes the number of strokes played by the opposing player or side; as, to play the like.",
        "In a manner like that of; in a manner similar to; as, do not act like him.",
        "In a like or similar manner.",
        "Likely; probably.",
        "To suit; to please; to be agreeable to.",
        "To be pleased with in a moderate degree; to approve; to take satisfaction in; to enjoy.",
        "To liken; to compare.",
        "To have an appearance or expression; to look; to seem to be (in a specified condition).",
        "To come near; to avoid with difficulty; to escape narrowly; as, he liked to have been too late. Cf. Had like, under Like, a."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "'T is as like you As cherry is to cherry.",
        "Like master, like man.",
        "He giveth snow like wool; he scattereth the hoar-frost like ashes.",
        "More clergymen were impoverished by the late war than ever in the like space before.",
        "But it is like the jolly world about us will scoff at the paradox of these practices.",
        "Many were not easy to be governed, nor like to conform themselves to strict rules.",
        "Had like to have been my utter overthrow.",
        "Ramona had like to have said the literal truth, . . . but recollected herself in time.",
        "He was a man, take him for all in all, I shall not look upon his like again.",
        "He maketh them to stagger like a drunken man.",
        "Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him.",
        "Cornwall him liked best, therefore he chose there.",
        "I willingly confess that it likes me much better when I find virtue in a fair lodging than when I am bound to seek it in an ill-favored creature.",
        "He proceeded from looking to liking, and from liking to loving.",
        "Like me to the peasant boys of France.",
        "He may either go or stay, as he best likes.",
        "You like well, and bear your years very well.",
        "He probably got his death, as he liked to have done two years ago, by viewing the troops for the expedition from the wall of Kensington Garden."
    ],
    "etymology": "[AS. gel. See Like, a.]"
}