{
    "word": "Link",
    "definitions": [
        "A single ring or division of a chain.",
        "Hence: Anything, whether material or not, which binds together, or connects, separate things; a part of a connected series; a tie; a bond.",
        "Anything doubled and closed like a link; as, a link of horsehair.",
        "Any one of the several elementary pieces of a mechanism, as the fixed frame, or a rod, wheel, mass of confined liquid, etc., by which relative motion of other parts is produced and constrained.",
        "Any intermediate rod or piece for transmitting force or motion, especially a short connecting rod with a bearing at each end; specifically (Steam Engine), the slotted bar, or connecting piece, to the opposite ends of which the eccentric rods are jointed, and by means of which the movement of the valve is varied, in a link motion.",
        "The length of one joint of Gunter's chain, being the hundredth part of it, or 7.92 inches, the chain being 66 feet in length. Cf. Chain, n., 4.",
        "A bond of affinity, or a unit of valence between atoms; -- applied to a unit of chemical force or attraction.",
        "Sausages; -- because linked together.",
        "A winding of a river; also, the ground along such a winding; a meander; -- usually in pl.",
        "Sand hills with the surrounding level or undulating land, such as occur along the seashore, a river bank, etc.",
        "Hence, any such piece of ground where golf is played; a golf course.",
        "To be connected."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The link of brotherhood, by which One common Maker bound me to the kind.",
        "And so by double links enchained themselves in lover's life.",
        "The windings or links Encyc. Brit. [Webster 1913 Suppl.]",
        "Golf may be played on any park or common, but its original home is the links Encyc. of Sport. [Webster 1913 Suppl.]",
        "All the tribes and nations that composed it [the Roman Empire] were linked together, not only by the same laws and the same government, but by all the facilities of commodious intercourse, and of frequent communication.",
        "No one generation could link with the other."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. linke, AS. hlence; akin to Sw. l ring of a chain, Dan. l chain, Icel. hlekkr; cf. G. gelenk joint, link, ring of a chain, lenken to bend.]"
}