{
    "word": "Livery",
    "definitions": [
        "The act of delivering possession of lands or tenements.",
        "The writ by which possession is obtained.",
        "Release from wardship; deliverance.",
        "That which is delivered out statedly or formally, as clothing, food, etc.",
        "The uniform clothing issued by feudal superiors to their retainers and serving as a badge when in military service.",
        "The peculiar dress by which the servants of a nobleman or gentleman are distinguished; as, a claret-colored livery.",
        "Hence, also, the peculiar dress or garb appropriated by any association or body of persons to their own use; as, the livery of the London tradesmen, of a priest, of a charity school, etc.; also, the whole body or company of persons wearing such a garb, and entitled to the privileges of the association; as, the whole livery of London.",
        "Hence, any characteristic dress or outward appearance.",
        "An allowance of food statedly given out; a ration, as to a family, to servants, to horses, etc.",
        "The feeding, stabling, and care of horses for compensation; boarding; as, to keep one's horses at livery.",
        "The keeping of horses in readiness to be hired temporarily for riding or driving; the state of being so kept; also, the place where horses are so kept, also called a livery stable.",
        "A low grade of wool.",
        "To clothe in, or as in, livery."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "It concerned them first to sue out their livery from the unjust wardship of his encroaching prerogative.",
        "A Haberdasher and a Carpenter, A Webbe, a Dyer, and a Tapicer, And they were clothed all in one livery Of a solempne and a gret fraternite.",
        "From the periodical deliveries of these characteristic articles of servile costume (blue coats) came our word livery.",
        "Now came still evening on, and twilight gray Had in her sober livery all things clad.",
        "The emperor's officers every night went through the town from house to house whereat any English gentleman did repast or lodge, and served their liveries for all night: first, the officers brought into the house a cast of fine manchet [white bread], and of silver two great pots, and white wine, and sugar.",
        "What livery is, we by common use in England know well enough, namely, that is, allowance of horse meat, as to keep horses at livery, the which word, I guess, is derived of livering or delivering forth their nightly food.",
        "It need hardly be observed that the explanation of livery which Spenser offers is perfectly correct, but . . . it is no longer applied to the ration or stated portion of food delivered at stated periods.",
        "Pegasus does not stand at livery even at the largest establishment in Moorfields."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. livere, F. livr, formerly, a gift of clothes made by the master to his servants, prop., a thing delivered, fr. livrer to deliver, L. liberare to set free, in LL., to deliver up. See Liberate.]"
}