{
    "word": "Lock",
    "definitions": [
        "Anything that fastens; specifically, a fastening, as for a door, a lid, a trunk, a drawer, and the like, in which a bolt is moved by a key so as to hold or to release the thing fastened.",
        "A fastening together or interlacing; a closing of one thing upon another; a state of being fixed or immovable.",
        "A place from which egress is prevented, as by a lock.",
        "The barrier or works which confine the water of a stream or canal.",
        "An inclosure in a canal with gates at each end, used in raising or lowering boats as they pass from one level to another; -- called also lift lock.",
        "That part or apparatus of a firearm by which the charge is exploded; as, a matchlock, flintlock, percussion lock, etc.",
        "A device for keeping a wheel from turning.",
        "A grapple in wrestling.",
        "To fasten with a lock, or as with a lock; to make fast; to prevent free movement of; as, to lock a door, a carriage wheel, a river, etc.",
        "To prevent ingress or access to, or exit from, by fastening the lock or locks of; -- often with up; as, to lock or lock up, a house, jail, room, trunk. etc.",
        "To fasten in or out, or to make secure by means of, or as with, locks; to confine, or to shut in or out -- often with up; as, to lock one's self in a room; to lock up the prisoners; to lock up one's silver; to lock intruders out of the house; to lock money into a vault; to lock a child in one's arms; to lock a secret in one's breast.",
        "To link together; to clasp closely; as, to lock arms.",
        "To furnish with locks; also, to raise or lower (a boat) in a lock.",
        "To seize, as the sword arm of an antagonist, by turning the left arm around it, to disarm him.",
        "To become fast, as by means of a lock or by interlacing; as, the door locks close."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "These gray locks, the pursuivants of death.",
        "Albemarle Street closed by a lock of carriages.",
        "When it locked none might through it pass."
    ],
    "etymology": "[AS. loc inclosure, an inclosed place, the fastening of a door, fr. l to lock, fasten; akin to OS. l (in comp.), D. luiken, OHG. l, Icel. l, Goth. l (in comp.); cf. Skr. ruj to break. Cf. Locket.]"
}