{
    "word": "make",
    "definitions": [
        "To cause to exist; to bring into being; to form; to produce; to frame; to fashion; to create.",
        "To form of materials; to cause to exist in a certain form; to construct; to fabricate.",
        "To produce, as something artificial, unnatural, or false; -- often with up; as, to make up a story.",
        "To bring about; to bring forward; to be the cause or agent of; to effect, do, perform, or execute; -- often used with a noun to form a phrase equivalent to the simple verb that corresponds to such noun; as, to make complaint, for to complain; to make record of, for to record; to make abode, for to abide, etc.",
        "To execute with the requisite formalities; as, to make a bill, note, will, deed, etc.",
        "To gain, as the result of one's efforts; to get, as profit; to make acquisition of; to have accrue or happen to one; as, to make a large profit; to make an error; to make a loss; to make money.",
        "To find, as the result of calculation or computation; to ascertain by enumeration; to find the number or amount of, by reckoning, weighing, measurement, and the like; as, he made the distance of; to travel over; as, the ship makes ten knots an hour; he made the distance in one day.",
        "To put in a desired or desirable condition; to cause to thrive.",
        "To cause to be or become; to put into a given state verb, or adjective; to constitute; as, to make known; to make public; to make fast.",
        "To cause to appear to be; to constitute subjectively; to esteem, suppose, or represent.",
        "To require; to constrain; to compel; to force; to cause; to occasion; -- followed by a noun or pronoun and infinitive.",
        "To become; to be, or to be capable of being, changed or fashioned into; to do the part or office of; to furnish the material for; as, he will make a good musician; sweet cider makes sour vinegar; wool makes warm clothing.",
        "To compose, as parts, ingredients, or materials; to constitute; to form; to amount to; as, a pound of ham makes a hearty meal.",
        "To be engaged or concerned in.",
        "To reach; to attain; to arrive at or in sight of.",
        "To proceed; to tend; to move; to go; as, he made toward home; the tiger made at the sportsmen.",
        "To tend; to contribute; to have effect; -- with for or against; as, it makes for his advantage.",
        "To increase; to augment; to accrue.",
        "To compose verses; to write poetry; to versify.",
        "Structure, texture, constitution of parts; construction; shape; form."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "For in this world no woman is Worthy to be my make.",
        "He . . . fashioned it with a graving tool, after he had made it a molten calf.",
        "And Art, with her contending, doth aspire To excel the natural with made delights.",
        "Call for Samson, that he may make us sport.",
        "Wealth maketh many friends.",
        "I will neither plead my age nor sickness in excuse of the faults which I have made.",
        "He accuseth Neptune unjustly who makes shipwreck a second time.",
        "Who makes or ruins with a smile or frown.",
        "Who made thee a prince and a judge over us?",
        "See, I have made thee a god to Pharaoh.",
        "He is not that goose and ass that Valla would make him.",
        "I will make them hear my words.",
        "They should be made to rise at their early hour.",
        "And old cloak makes a new jerkin.",
        "The heaven, the air, the earth, and boundless sea, Make but one temple for the Deity.",
        "Gomez, what makest thou here, with a whole brotherhood of city bailiffs?",
        "They that sail in the middle can make no land of either side.",
        "If a child were crooked or deformed in body or mind, they made him away.",
        "Make the doors upon a woman's wit, and it will out at the casement.",
        "He was all made up of love and charms!",
        "A scurvy, jack-a-nape priest to meddle or make.",
        "Follow after the things which make for peace.",
        "Considerations infinite Do make against it.",
        "To solace him some time, as I do when I make.",
        "Joshua and all Israel made as if they were beaten before them, and fled.",
        "My lord of London maketh as though he were greatly displeased with me.",
        "It our perfection of so frail a make As every plot can undermine and shake?"
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. maken, makien, AS. macian; akin to OS. mak, OFries. makia, D. maken, G. machen, OHG. mahh to join, fit, prepare, make, Dan. mage. Cf. Match an equal.]"
}