{
    "word": "March",
    "definitions": [
        "A territorial border or frontier; a region adjacent to a boundary line; a confine; -- used chiefly in the plural, and in English history applied especially to the border land on the frontiers between England and Scotland, and England and Wales.",
        "To border; to be contiguous; to lie side by side.",
        "To move with regular steps, as a soldier; to walk in a grave, deliberate, or stately manner; to advance steadily.",
        "To proceed by walking in a body or in military order; as, the German army marched into France.",
        "To cause to move with regular steps in the manner of a soldier; to cause to move in military array, or in a body, as troops; to cause to advance in a steady, regular, or stately manner; to cause to go by peremptory command, or by force.",
        "The act of marching; a movement of soldiers from one stopping place to another; military progress; advance of troops.",
        "Hence: Measured and regular advance or movement, like that of soldiers moving in order; stately or deliberate walk; steady onward movement; as, the march of time.",
        "The distance passed over in marching; as, an hour's march; a march of twenty miles.",
        "A piece of music designed or fitted to accompany and guide the movement of troops; a piece of music in the march form."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The stormy March is come at last, With wind, and cloud, and changing skies.",
        "Geneva is situated in the marches of several dominions -- France, Savoy, and Switzerland.",
        "Lords of waste marches, kings of desolate isles.",
        "That was in a strange land Which marcheth upon Chimerie.",
        "March them again in fair array.",
        "These troops came to the army harassed with a long and wearisome march.",
        "With solemn march Goes slow and stately by them.",
        "This happens merely because men will not bide their time, but will insist on precipitating the march of affairs.",
        "The drums presently striking up a march."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. marche, F. marche; of German origin; cf. OHG. marcha, G. mark, akin to OS. marka, AS. mearc, Goth. marka, L. margo edge, border, margin, and possibly to E. mark a sign. Margin, Margrave, Marque, Marquis.]"
}