{
    "word": "Market",
    "definitions": [
        "A meeting together of people, at a stated time and place, for the purpose of buying and selling (as cattle, provisions, wares, etc.) by private purchase and sale, and not by auction; as, a market is held in the town every week; a farmers' market.",
        "A public place (as an open space in a town) or a large building, where a market is held; a market place or market house; esp., a place where provisions are sold.",
        "An opportunity for selling or buying anything; demand, as shown by price offered or obtainable; as, to find a market for one's wares; there is no market for woolen cloths in that region; India is a market for English goods; there are none for sale on the market; the best price on the market.",
        "Exchange, or purchase and sale; traffic; as, a dull market; a slow market.",
        "The price for which a thing is sold in a market; market price. Hence: Value; worth.",
        "The privelege granted to a town of having a public market.",
        "A specified group of potential buyers, or a region in which goods may be sold; a town, region, or country, where the demand exists; as, the under-30 market; the New Jersey market.",
        "To deal in a market; to buy or sell; to make bargains for provisions or goods.",
        "To expose for sale in a market; to traffic in; to sell in a market, and in an extended sense, to sell in any manner; as, most of the farmes have marketed their crops."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "He is wit's peddler; and retails his wares At wakes, and wassails, meetings, markets, fairs.",
        "Three women and a goose make a market.",
        "There is at Jerusalem by the sheep market a pool.",
        "There is a third thing to be considered: how a market can be created for produce, or how production can be limited to the capacities of the market.",
        "What is a man If his chief good and market of his time Be but to sleep and feed?",
        "Industrious merchants meet, and market there The world's collected wealth."
    ],
    "etymology": "[Akin to D. markt, OHG. mark, merk, G. markt; all fr.L. mercatus trade, market place, fr. mercari, p. p. mercatus, to trade, traffic, merx, mercis, ware, merchandise, prob. akin to merere to deserve, gain, acquire: cf. F. march. See Merit, and cf. Merchant, Mart.]"
}