{
    "word": "Match",
    "definitions": [
        "A person or thing equal or similar to another; one able to mate or cope with another; an equal; a mate.",
        "A bringing together of two parties suited to one another, as for a union, a trial of skill or force, a contest, or the like",
        "A contest to try strength or skill, or to determine superiority; a sporting contest; an emulous struggle.",
        "A matrimonial union; a marriage.",
        "An agreement, compact, etc.",
        "A candidate for matrimony; one to be gained in marriage.",
        "Equality of conditions in contest or competition, or one who provides equal competition to another in a contest; as, he had no match as a swordsman within the city.",
        "Suitable combination or bringing together; that which corresponds or harmonizes with something else; as, the carpet and curtains are a match.",
        "A perforated board, block of plaster, hardened sand, etc., in which a pattern is partly imbedded when a mold is made, for giving shape to the surfaces of separation between the parts of the mold.",
        "To be a mate or match for; to be able to complete with; to rival successfully; to equal.",
        "To furnish with its match; to bring a match, or equal, against; to show an equal competitor to; to set something in competition with, or in opposition to, as equal.",
        "To oppose as equal; to contend successfully against.",
        "To make or procure the equal of, or that which is exactly similar to, or corresponds with; as, to match a vase or a horse; to match cloth.",
        "To make equal, proportionate, or suitable; to adapt, fit, or suit (one thing to another).",
        "To marry; to give in marriage.",
        "To fit together, or make suitable for fitting together; specifically, to furnish with a tongue and a groove, at the edges; as, to match boards.",
        "To be united in marriage; to mate.",
        "To be of equal, or similar, size, figure, color, or quality; to tally; to suit; to correspond; as, these vases match."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Government . . . makes an innocent man, though of the lowest rank, a match for the mightiest of his fellow subjects.",
        "A solemn match was made; he lost the prize.",
        "Love doth seldom suffer itself to be confined by other matches than those of its own making.",
        "It were no match, your nail against his horn.",
        "No settled senses of the world can match The pleasure of that madness.",
        "No history or antiquity can matchis policies and his conduct.",
        "Eternal might To match with their inventions they presumed So easy, and of his thunder made a scorn.",
        "Let poets match their subject to their strength.",
        "A senator of Rome survived, Would not have matched his daughter with a king.",
        "I hold it a sin to match in my kindred.",
        "Let tigers match with hinds, and wolves with sheep."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. macche, AS. gemaecca; akin to gemaca, and to OS. gimako, OHG. gimah fitting, suitable, convenient, Icel. mark suitable, maki mate, Sw. make, Dan. mage; all from the root of E. make, v. See Make mate, and Make, v., and cf. Mate an associate.]"
}