{
    "word": "Matter",
    "definitions": [
        "That of which anything is composed; constituent substance; material; the material or substantial part of anything; the constituent elements of conception; that into which a notion may be analyzed; the essence; the pith; the embodiment.",
        "That of which the sensible universe and all existent bodies are composed; anything which has extension, occupies space, or is perceptible by the senses; body; substance.",
        "That with regard to, or about which, anything takes place or is done; the thing aimed at, treated of, or treated; subject of action, discussion, consideration, feeling, complaint, legal action, or the like; theme.",
        "That which one has to treat, or with which one has to do; concern; affair; business.",
        "Affair worthy of account; thing of consequence; importance; significance; moment; -- chiefly in the phrases what matter? no matter, and the like.",
        "Inducing cause or occasion, especially of anything disagreeable or distressing; difficulty; trouble.",
        "Amount; quantity; portion; space; -- often indefinite.",
        "Substance excreted from living animal bodies; that which is thrown out or discharged in a tumor, boil, or abscess; pus; purulent substance.",
        "That which is permanent, or is supposed to be given, and in or upon which changes are effected by psychological or physical processes and relations; -- opposed to form.",
        "Written manuscript, or anything to be set in type; copy; also, type set up and ready to be used, or which has been used, in printing.",
        "To be of importance; to import; to signify.",
        "To form pus or matter, as an abscess; to maturate.",
        "To regard as important; to take account of; to care for."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "He is the matter of virtue.",
        "Son of God, Savior of men! Thy name Shall be the copious matter of my song.",
        "Every great matter they shall bring unto thee, but every small matter they shall judge.",
        "To help the matter, the alchemists call in many vanities out of astrology.",
        "Some young female seems to have carried matters so far, that she is ripe for asking advice.",
        "A prophet some, and some a poet, cry; No matter which, so neither of them lie.",
        "And this is the matter why interpreters upon that passage in Hosea will not consent it to be a true story, that the prophet took a harlot to wife.",
        "Away he goes, . . . a matter of seven miles.",
        "I have thoughts to tarry a small matter.",
        "No small matter of British forces were commanded over sea the year before.",
        "Waller, with Sir William Balfour, exceeded in horse, but were, upon the whole matter, equal in foot.",
        "It matters not how they were called.",
        "He did not matter cold nor hunger."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. matere, F. mati, fr. L. materia; perh. akin to L. mater mother. Cf. Mother, Madeira, Material.]"
}