{
    "word": "Mean",
    "definitions": [
        "To signify; to indicate; to import; to denote.",
        "To have a purpose or intention.",
        "Destitute of distinction or eminence; common; low; vulgar; humble.",
        "Wanting dignity of mind; low-minded; base; destitute of honor; spiritless; as, a mean motive.",
        "Of little value or account; worthy of little or no regard; contemptible; despicable.",
        "Of poor quality; as, mean fare.",
        "Penurious; stingy; close-fisted; illiberal; as, mean hospitality.",
        "Occupying a middle position; middle; being about midway between extremes.",
        "Intermediate in excellence of any kind.",
        "Average; having an intermediate value between two extremes, or between the several successive values of a variable quantity during one cycle of variation; as, mean distance; mean motion; mean solar day.",
        "That which is mean, or intermediate, between two extremes of place, time, or number; the middle point or place; middle rate or degree; mediocrity; medium; absence of extremes or excess; moderation; measure.",
        "A quantity having an intermediate value between several others, from which it is derived, and of which it expresses the resultant value; usually, unless otherwise specified, it is the simple average, formed by adding the quantities together and dividing by their number, which is called an arithmetical mean. A geometrical mean is the nth root of the product of the n quantities being averaged.",
        "That through which, or by the help of which, an end is attained; something tending to an object desired; intermediate agency or measure; necessary condition or coagent; instrument.",
        "Resources; property, revenue, or the like, considered as the condition of easy livelihood, or an instrumentality at command for effecting any purpose; disposable force or substance.",
        "A part, whether alto or tenor, intermediate between the soprano and base; a middle part.",
        "Meantime; meanwhile.",
        "A mediator; a go-between."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "What mean ye by this service ?",
        "Ye thought evil against me; but God meant it unto good.",
        "I am not a Spaniard To say that it is yours and not to mean it.",
        "What mean these seven ewe lambs ?",
        "Go ye, and learn what that meaneth.",
        "The mean man boweth down, and the great man humbleth himself.",
        "Can you imagine I so mean could prove, To save my life by changing of my love ?",
        "The Roman legions and great Caesar found Our fathers no mean foes.",
        "Being of middle age and a mean stature.",
        "According to the fittest style of lofty, mean, or lowly.",
        "But to speak in a mean, the virtue of prosperity is temperance; the virtue of adversity is fortitude.",
        "There is a mean in all things.",
        "The extremes we have mentioned, between which the wellinstracted Christian holds the mean, are correlatives.",
        "Their virtuous conversation was a mean to work the conversion of the heathen to Christ.",
        "You may be able, by this mean, to review your own scientific acquirements.",
        "Philosophical doubt is not an end, but a mean.",
        "By this means he had them more at vantage.",
        "What other means is left unto us.",
        "Your means are very slender, and your waste is great.",
        "The mean is drowned with your unruly base.",
        "He wooeth her by means and by brokage.",
        "If by any means I might attain to the resurrection of the dead.",
        "The wine on this side of the lake is by no means so good as that on the other."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. mene, OF. meiien, F. moyen, fr. L. medianus that is in the middle, fr. medius; akin to E. mid. See Mid.]"
}