{
    "word": "Meet",
    "definitions": [
        "To come in collision with; to confront in conflict; to encounter hostilely; as, they met the enemy and defeated them; the ship met opposing winds and currents.",
        "To come into the presence of without contact; to come close to; to intercept; to come within the perception, influence, or recognition of; as, to meet a train at a junction; to meet carriages or persons in the street; to meet friends at a party; sweet sounds met the ear.",
        "To perceive; to come to a knowledge of; to have personal acquaintance with; to experience; to suffer; as, the eye met a horrid sight; he met his fate.",
        "To come up to; to be even with; to equal; to match; to satisfy; to ansver; as, to meet one's expectations; the supply meets the demand.",
        "To come together by mutual approach; esp., to come in contact, or into proximity, by approach from opposite directions; to join; to come face to face; to come in close relationship; as, we met in the street; two lines meet so as to form an angle.",
        "To come together with hostile purpose; to have an encounter or conflict.",
        "To assemble together; to congregate; as, Congress meets on the first Monday of December.",
        "To come together by mutual concessions; hence, to agree; to harmonize; to unite.",
        "An assembling together; esp., the assembling of huntsmen for the hunt; also, the persons who so assemble, and the place of meeting.",
        "Suitable; fit; proper; appropriate; qualified; convenient."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "His daughter came out to meet him.",
        "Of vice or virtue, whether blest or curst, Which meets contempt, or which compassion first.",
        "O, when meet now Such pairs in love and mutual honor joined !",
        "Weapons more violent, when next we meet, May serve to better us and worse our foes.",
        "They . . . appointed a day to meet together.",
        "We met with many things worthy of observation.",
        "Prepare to meet with more than brutal fury From the fierce prince.",
        "It was meet that we should make merry."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. mete fitting, moderate, scanty, AS. m moderate; akin to gemet fit, meet, metan to mete, and G. m moderate, gem fitting. See Mete.]"
}