{
    "word": "Mill",
    "definitions": [
        "A machine for grinding or comminuting any substance, as grain, by rubbing and crushing it between two hard, rough, or indented surfaces; as, a gristmill, a coffee mill; a bone mill.",
        "A machine used for expelling the juice, sap, etc., from vegetable tissues by pressure, or by pressure in combination with a grinding, or cutting process; as, a cider mill; a cane mill.",
        "A machine for grinding and polishing; as, a lapidary mill.",
        "A common name for various machines which produce a manufactured product, or change the form of a raw material by the continuous repetition of some simple action; as, a sawmill; a stamping mill, etc.",
        "A building or collection of buildings with machinery by which the processes of manufacturing are carried on; as, a cotton mill; a powder mill; a rolling mill.",
        "A hardened steel roller having a design in relief, used for imprinting a reversed copy of the design in a softer metal, as copper.",
        "An excavation in rock, transverse to the workings, from which material for filling is obtained.",
        "A passage underground through which ore is shot.",
        "A milling cutter. See Illust. under Milling.",
        "A pugilistic encounter.",
        "Short for Treadmill.",
        "The raised or ridged edge or surface made in milling anything, as a coin or screw.",
        "A building or complex of buildings containing a mill{1} or other machinery to grind grains into flour.",
        "To reduce to fine particles, or to small pieces, in a mill; to grind; to comminute.",
        "To shape, finish, or transform by passing through a machine; specifically, to shape or dress, as metal, by means of a rotary cutter.",
        "To make a raised border around the edges of, or to cut fine grooves or indentations across the edges of, as of a coin, or a screw head; also, to stamp in a coining press; to coin.",
        "To pass through a fulling mill; to full, as cloth.",
        "To beat with the fists.",
        "To roll into bars, as steel.",
        "To swim under water; -- said of air-breathing creatures.",
        "To undergo hulling, as maize.",
        "To move in a circle, as cattle upon a plain; to move around aimlessly; -- usually used with around.",
        "To swim suddenly in a new direction; -- said of whales.",
        "To take part in a mill; to box.",
        "To fill (a winze or interior incline) with broken ore, to be drawn out at the bottom.",
        "To cause to mill, or circle round, as cattle."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The deer and the pig and the nilghar were milling round and round in a circle of eight or ten miles radius."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. mille, melle, mulle, milne, AS. myln, mylen; akin to D. molen, G. m, OHG. mul, mul, Icel. mylna; all prob. from L. molina, fr. mola millstone; prop., that which grinds, akin to molere to grind, Goth. malan, G. mahlen, and to E. meal. Meal flour, and cf. Moline.]"
}