{
    "word": "Mine",
    "definitions": [
        "To dig a mine or pit in the earth; to get ore, metals, coal, or precious stones, out of the earth; to dig in the earth for minerals; to dig a passage or cavity under anything in order to overthrow it by explosives or otherwise.",
        "To form subterraneous tunnel or hole; to form a burrow or lodge in the earth; as, the mining cony.",
        "To dig away, or otherwise remove, the substratum or foundation of; to lay a mine under; to sap; to undermine; hence, to ruin or destroy by slow degrees or secret means.",
        "To dig into, for ore or metal.",
        "To get, as metals, out of the earth by digging.",
        "A subterranean cavity or passage",
        "A pit or excavation in the earth, from which metallic ores, precious stones, coal, or other mineral substances are taken by digging; -- distinguished from the pits from which stones for architectural purposes are taken, and which are called quarries.",
        "A cavity or tunnel made under a fortification or other work, for the purpose of blowing up the superstructure with some explosive agent.",
        "Any place where ore, metals, or precious stones are got by digging or washing the soil; as, a placer mine.",
        "A rich source of wealth or other good.",
        "An explosive device placed concealed in a location, on land or at sea, where an enemy vehicle or enemy personnel may pass through, having a triggering mechanism which detects people or vehicles, and which will explode and kill or maim personnel or destroy or damage vehicles. A mine placed at sea (formerly called a torpedo, see torpedo{2} (a)) is also called an marine mine and underwater mine and sometimes called a floating mine, even though it may be anchored to the floor of the sea and not actually float freely. A mine placed on land (formerly called a torpedo, see torpedo{3}), usually buried, is called a land mine."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "I kept myself from mine iniquity.",
        "When a man deceives me once, says the Italian proverb, it is his fault; when twice, it is mine.",
        "This title honors me and mine.",
        "She shall have me and mine.",
        "They mined the walls.",
        "Too lazy to cut down these immense trees, the spoilers . . . had mined them, and placed a quantity of gunpowder in the cavity.",
        "Lead veins have been traced . . . but they have not been mined.",
        "The principal ore mined there is the bituminous cinnabar."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. miner, L. minare to drive animals, in LL. also, to lead, conduct, dig a mine (cf. E. lode, and lead to conduct), akin to L. minari to threaten; cf. Sp. mina mine, conduit, subterraneous canal, a spring or source of water, It. mina. See Menace, and cf. Mien.]"
}