{
    "word": "Model",
    "definitions": [
        "A miniature representation of a thing, with the several parts in due proportion; sometimes, a facsimile of the same size; as, a model of the B-52 bomber.",
        "Something intended to serve, or that may serve, as a pattern of something to be made; a material representation or embodiment of an ideal; sometimes, a drawing; a plan; as, the clay model of a sculpture; the inventor's model of a machine.",
        "Anything which serves, or may serve, as an example for imitation; as, a government formed on the model of the American constitution; a model of eloquence, virtue, or behavior.",
        "That by which a thing is to be measured; standard.",
        "Any copy, or resemblance, more or less exact.",
        "A person who poses as a pattern for an artist; as, the artist used his daughter as a model for an Indian maiden.",
        "A person who is employed to wear clothing for the purpose of advertising or display, or who poses with a product for the same purpose; a mannequin{1}; as, a fashion model.",
        "A particular version or design of an object that is made in multiple versions; as, the 1993 model of the Honda Accord; the latest model of the HP laserjet printer. For many manufactured products, the model name is encoded as part of the model number.",
        "An abstract and often simplified conceptual representation of the workings of a system of objects in the real world, which often includes mathematical or logical objects and relations representing the objects and relations in the real-world system, and constructed for the purpose of explaining the workings of the system or predicting its behavior under hypothetical conditions; as, the administration's model of the United States economy predicts budget surpluses for the next fifteen years; different models of the universe assume different values for the cosmological constant; models of proton structure have grown progressively more complex in the past century.",
        "Suitable to be taken as a model or pattern; as, a model house; a model husband.",
        "To plan or form after a pattern; to form in model; to form a model or pattern for; to shape; to mold; to fashion; as, to model a house or a government; to model an edifice according to the plan delineated.",
        "To make a copy or a pattern; to design or imitate forms; as, to model in wax."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "In charts, in maps, and eke in models made.",
        "I had my father's signet in my purse, Which was the model of that Danish seal.",
        "You have the models of several ancient temples, though the temples and the gods are perished.",
        "[The application for a patent] must be accompanied by a full description of the invention, with drawings and a model where the case admits of it.",
        "When we mean to build We first survey the plot, then draw the model.",
        "He that despairs measures Providence by his own little, contracted model.",
        "Thou seest thy wretched brother die, Who was the model of thy father's life.",
        "A professional model."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. mod, It. modello, fr. (assumed) L. modellus, fr. modulus a small measure, dim. of modus. See Mode, and cf. Module.]"
}