{
    "word": "Mould",
    "definitions": [
        "Crumbling, soft, friable earth; esp., earth containing the remains or constituents of organic matter, and suited to the growth of plants; soil.",
        "Earthy material; the matter of which anything is formed; composing substance; material.",
        "To cover with mold or soil.",
        "A growth of minute fungi of various kinds, esp. those of the great groups Hyphomycetes, and Physomycetes, forming on damp or decaying organic matter.",
        "To cause to become moldy; to cause mold to grow upon.",
        "To become moldy; to be covered or filled, in whole or in part, with a mold.",
        "The matrix, or cavity, in which anything is shaped, and from which it takes its form; also, the body or mass containing the cavity; as, a sand mold; a jelly mold.",
        "That on which, or in accordance with which, anything is modeled or formed; anything which serves to regulate the size, form, etc., as the pattern or templet used by a shipbuilder, carpenter, or mason.",
        "Cast; form; shape; character.",
        "A group of moldings; as, the arch mold of a porch or doorway; the pier mold of a Gothic pier, meaning the whole profile, section, or combination of parts.",
        "A fontanel.",
        "A frame with a wire cloth bottom, on which the pump is drained to form a sheet, in making paper by hand.",
        "To form into a particular shape; to shape; to model; to fashion.",
        "To ornament by molding or carving the material of; as, a molded window jamb.",
        "To knead; as, to mold dough or bread.",
        "To form a mold of, as in sand, in which a casting may be made."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The etherial mold, Incapable of stain.",
        "Nature formed me of her softest mold.",
        "The glass of fashion and the mold of form.",
        "Crowned with an architrave of antique mold.",
        "He forgeth and moldeth metals.",
        "Did I request thee, Maker, from my clay To mold me man?"
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. molde, AS. molde; akin to D. mul, G. mull, mulm, OHG. molt, molta, Icel. mold, Dan. muld, Sw. mull, Goth. mulda, and E. meal flour. See Meal, and cf. Mole an animal, Mull, v.]"
}