{
    "word": "Mount",
    "definitions": [
        "A mass of earth, or earth and rock, rising considerably above the common surface of the surrounding land; a mountain; a high hill; -- used always instead of mountain, when put before a proper name; as, Mount Washington; otherwise, chiefly in poetry.",
        "A bulwark for offense or defense; a mound.",
        "A bank; a fund.",
        "Any one of seven fleshy prominences in the palm of the hand which are taken as significant of the influence of mounts of Jupiter, Mars, Mercury, the Moon, Saturn, the Sun or Apollo, and Venus.",
        "To rise on high; to go up; to be upraised or uplifted; to tower aloft; to ascend; -- often with up.",
        "To get up on anything, as a platform or scaffold; especially, to seat one's self on a horse for riding.",
        "To attain in value; to amount.",
        "To get upon; to ascend; to climb; as, to mount the pulpit and deliver a sermon.",
        "To place one's self on, as a horse or other animal, or anything that one sits upon; to bestride.",
        "To cause to mount; to put on horseback; to furnish with animals for riding; to furnish with horses.",
        "Hence: To put upon anything that sustains and fits for use, as a gun on a carriage, a map or picture on cloth or paper; to prepare for being worn or otherwise used, as a diamond by setting, or a sword blade by adding the hilt, scabbard, etc.; as, to mount a picture or diploma in a frame",
        "To raise aloft; to lift on high.",
        "That upon which a person or thing is mounted",
        "A horse.",
        "The cardboard or cloth on which a drawing, photograph, or the like is mounted; a mounting."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Hew ye down trees, and cast a mount against Jerusalem.",
        "Though Babylon should mount up to heaven.",
        "The fire of trees and houses mounts on high.",
        "Bring then these blessings to a strict account, Make fair deductions, see to what they mount.",
        "Shall we mount again the rural throne?",
        "What power is it which mounts my love so high?",
        "She had so good a seat and hand, she might be trusted with any mount."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. munt, mont, mount, AS. munt, fr. L. mons, montis; cf. L. minae protections, E. eminent, menace: cf. F. mont. Cf. Mount, v., Mountain, Mont, Monte, Montem.]"
}