{
    "word": "Mouth",
    "definitions": [
        "The opening through which an animal receives food; the aperture between the jaws or between the lips; also, the cavity, containing the tongue and teeth, between the lips and the pharynx; the buccal cavity.",
        "An opening affording entrance or exit; orifice; aperture;",
        "The opening of a vessel by which it is filled or emptied, charged or discharged; as, the mouth of a jar or pitcher; the mouth of the lacteal vessels, etc.",
        "The opening or entrance of any cavity, as a cave, pit, well, or den.",
        "The opening of a piece of ordnance, through which it is discharged.",
        "The opening through which the waters of a river or any stream are discharged.",
        "The entrance into a harbor.",
        "The crosspiece of a bridle bit, which enters the mouth of an animal.",
        "A principal speaker; one who utters the common opinion; a mouthpiece.",
        "Cry; voice.",
        "Speech; language; testimony.",
        "A wry face; a grimace; a mow.",
        "To utter with a voice affectedly big or swelling; to speak in a strained or unnaturally sonorous manner; as, mouthing platitudes.",
        "To form or cleanse with the mouth; to lick, as a bear her cub.",
        "To make mouths at.",
        "To speak with a full, round, or loud, affected voice; to vociferate; to rant.",
        "To put mouth to mouth; to kiss.",
        "To make grimaces, esp. in ridicule or contempt."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Every coffeehouse has some particular statesman belonging to it, who is the mouth of the street where he lives.",
        "That in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established.",
        "Counterfeit sad looks, Make mouths upon me when I turn my back.",
        "The mouth of them that speak lies shall be stopped.",
        "Whose mouths must be stopped.",
        "Mouthing out his hollow oes and aes.",
        "I'll bellow out for Rome, and for my country, And mouth at Caesar, till I shake the senate.",
        "Well I know, when I am gone, How she mouths behind my back."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. mouth, mu, AS. m; akin to D. mond, OS. m, G. mund, Icel. mu, munnr, Sw. mun, Dan. mund, Goth. mun, and possibly L. mentum chin; or cf. D. muil mouth, muzzle, G. maul, OHG. m, Icel. m, and Skr. mukha mouth.]"
}