{
    "word": "Nature",
    "definitions": [
        "The existing system of things; the universe of matter, energy, time and space; the physical world; all of creation. Contrasted with the world of mankind, with its mental and social phenomena.",
        "The personified sum and order of causes and effects; the powers which produce existing phenomena, whether in the total or in detail; the agencies which carry on the processes of creation or of being; -- often conceived of as a single and separate entity, embodying the total of all finite agencies and forces as disconnected from a creating or ordering intelligence; as, produced by nature; the forces of nature.",
        "The established or regular course of things; usual order of events; connection of cause and effect.",
        "Conformity to that which is natural, as distinguished from that which is artificial, or forced, or remote from actual experience.",
        "The sum of qualities and attributes which make a person or thing what it is, as distinct from others; native character; inherent or essential qualities or attributes; peculiar constitution or quality of being.",
        "Kind, sort; character; quality.",
        "Physical constitution or existence; the vital powers; the natural life.",
        "Natural affection or reverence.",
        "Constitution or quality of mind or character.",
        "To endow with natural qualities."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "But looks through nature up to nature's God.",
        "When, in the course of human Events, it becomes necessary for one People to dissolve the Political Bonds which have connected them with another, ans to assume among the powers of the earth the separate and equal Station which the Laws of Nature and of Nature's God entitle them, a decent Respect to the Opinions of Mankind requires that they should declare the causes that impel them to the Separation.",
        "Nature has caprices which art can not imitate.",
        "I oft admire How Nature, wise and frugal, could commit Such disproportions.",
        "One touch of nature makes the whole world kin.",
        "Thou, therefore, whom thou only canst redeem, Their nature also to thy nature join, And be thyself man among men on earth.",
        "A dispute of this nature caused mischief.",
        "Oppressed nature sleeps.",
        "Have we not seen The murdering son ascend his parent's bed, Through violated nature force his way?",
        "A born devil, on whose nature Nurture can never stick.",
        "That reverence which is due to a superior nature.",
        "He [God] which natureth every kind."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F., fr. L. natura, fr. natus born, produced, p. p. of nasci to be born. See Nation.]"
}