{
    "word": "Object",
    "definitions": [
        "To offer in opposition as a criminal charge or by way of accusation or reproach; to adduce as an objection or adverse reason.",
        "To make opposition in words or argument; to express one's displeasure; -- usually followed by to; as, she objected to his vulgar language.",
        "Anything which is set, or which may be regarded as set, before the mind so as to be apprehended or known; that of which the mind by any of its activities takes cognizance, whether a thing external in space or a conception formed by the mind itself; as, an object of knowledge, wonder, fear, thought, study, etc.",
        "That toward which the mind, or any of its activities, is directed; that on which the purpose are fixed as the end of action or effort; that which is sought for; goal; end; aim; motive; final cause.",
        "Sight; show; appearance; aspect.",
        "A word, phrase, or clause toward which an action is directed, or is considered to be directed; as, the object of a transitive verb.",
        "Any set of data that is or can be manipulated or referenced by a computer program as a single entity; -- the term may be used broadly, to include files, images (such as icons on the screen), or small data structures.",
        "anything defined as an object within an object-oriented programming language.",
        "Anything which exists and which has attributes; distinguished from attributes, processes, and relations.",
        "Opposed; presented in opposition; also, exposed."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Of less account some knight thereto object, Whose loss so great and harmful can not prove.",
        "Some strong impediment or other objecting itself.",
        "Pallas to their eyes The mist objected, and condensed the skies.",
        "He gave to him to object his heinous crime.",
        "Others object the poverty of the nation.",
        "The book . . . giveth liberty to object any crime against such as are to be ordered.",
        "Object is a term for that about which the knowing subject is conversant; what the schoolmen have styled the",
        "The object of their bitterest hatred.",
        "Object, beside its proper signification, came to be abusively applied to denote motive, end, final cause . . . . This innovation was probably borrowed from the French.",
        "Let our object be, our country, our whole country, and nothing but our country.",
        "He, advancing close Up to the lake, past all the rest, arose In glorious object."
    ],
    "etymology": "[L. objectus, p. p.]"
}