{
    "word": "Open",
    "definitions": [
        "Free of access; not shut up; not closed; affording unobstructed ingress or egress; not impeding or preventing passage; not locked up or covered over; -- applied to passageways; as, an open door, window, road, etc.; also, to inclosed structures or objects; as, open houses, boxes, baskets, bottles, etc.; also, to means of communication or approach by water or land; as, an open harbor or roadstead.",
        "Free to be used, enjoyed, visited, or the like; not private; public; unrestricted in use; as, an open library, museum, court, or other assembly; liable to the approach, trespass, or attack of any one; unprotected; exposed.",
        "Free or cleared of obstruction to progress or to view; accessible; as, an open tract; the open sea.",
        "Not drawn together, closed, or contracted; extended; expanded; as, an open hand; open arms; an open flower; an open prospect.",
        "Without reserve or false pretense; sincere; characterized by sincerity; unfeigned; frank; also, generous; liberal; bounteous; -- applied to personal appearance, or character, and to the expression of thought and feeling, etc.",
        "Not concealed or secret; not hidden or disguised; exposed to view or to knowledge; revealed; apparent; as, open schemes or plans; open shame or guilt; open source code.",
        "Not of a quality to prevent communication, as by closing water ways, blocking roads, etc.; hence, not frosty or inclement; mild; -- used of the weather or the climate; as, an open season; an open winter.",
        "Not settled or adjusted; not decided or determined; not closed or withdrawn from consideration; as, an open account; an open question; to keep an offer or opportunity open.",
        "Free; disengaged; unappropriated; as, to keep a day open for any purpose; to be open for an engagement.",
        "Uttered with a relatively wide opening of the articulating organs; -- said of vowels; as, the n fopen as compared with the in s.",
        "Uttered, as a consonant, with the oral passage simply narrowed without closure, as in uttering s.",
        "Not closed or stopped with the finger; -- said of the string of an instrument, as of a violin, when it is allowed to vibrate throughout its whole length.",
        "Produced by an open string; as, an open tone.",
        "Open or unobstructed space; clear land, without trees or obstructions; open ocean; open water.",
        "To make or set open; to render free of access; to unclose; to unbar; to unlock; to remove any fastening or covering from; as, to open a door; to open a box; to open a room; to open a letter.",
        "To spread; to expand; as, to open the hand.",
        "To disclose; to reveal; to interpret; to explain.",
        "To make known; to discover; also, to render available or accessible for settlements, trade, etc.",
        "To enter upon; to begin; as, to open a discussion; to open fire upon an enemy; to open trade, or correspondence; to open an investigation; to open a case in court, or a meeting.",
        "To loosen or make less compact; as, to open matted cotton by separating the fibers.",
        "To unclose; to form a hole, breach, or gap; to be unclosed; to be parted.",
        "To expand; to spread out; to be disclosed; as, the harbor opened to our view.",
        "To begin; to commence; as, the stock opened at par; the battery opened upon the enemy.",
        "To bark on scent or view of the game."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Through the gate, Wide open and unguarded, Satan passed.",
        "His ears are open unto their cry.",
        "If Demetrius . . . have a matter against any man, the law is open and there are deputies.",
        "The service that I truly did his life, Hath left me open to all injuries.",
        "Each, with open arms, embraced her chosen knight.",
        "With aspect open, shall erect his head.",
        "The Moor is of a free and open nature.",
        "The French are always open, familiar, and talkative.",
        "His thefts are too open.",
        "That I may find him, and with secret gaze Or open admiration him behold.",
        "Then we got into the open.",
        "And all the windows of my heart I open to the day.",
        "The king opened himself to some of his council, that he was sorry for the earl's death.",
        "Unto thee have I opened my cause.",
        "While he opened to us the Scriptures.",
        "The English did adventure far for to open the North parts of America.",
        "Poetry that had opened up so many delightful views into the character and condition of our",
        "The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram."
    ],
    "etymology": "[AS. open; akin to D. open, OS. opan, G. offan, Icel. opinn, Sw. , Dan. aaben, and perh. to E. up. Cf. Up, and Ope.]"
}