{
    "word": "Order",
    "definitions": [
        "Regular arrangement; any methodical or established succession or harmonious relation; method; system",
        "Of material things, like the books in a library.",
        "Of intellectual notions or ideas, like the topics of a discource.",
        "Of periods of time or occurrences, and the like.",
        "Right arrangement; a normal, correct, or fit condition; as, the house is in order; the machinery is out of order.",
        "The customary mode of procedure; established system, as in the conduct of debates or the transaction of business; usage; custom; fashion.",
        "Conformity with law or decorum; freedom from disturbance; general tranquillity; public quiet; as, to preserve order in a community or an assembly.",
        "That which prescribes a method of procedure; a rule or regulation made by competent authority; as, the rules and orders of the senate.",
        "A command; a mandate; a precept; a direction.",
        "Hence: A commission to purchase, sell, or supply goods; a direction, in writing, to pay money, to furnish supplies, to admit to a building, a place of entertainment, or the like; as, orders for blankets are large.",
        "A number of things or persons arranged in a fixed or suitable place, or relative position; a rank; a row; a grade; especially, a rank or class in society; a group or division of men in the same social or other position; also, a distinct character, kind, or sort; as, the higher or lower orders of society; talent of a high order.",
        "A body of persons having some common honorary distinction or rule of obligation; esp., a body of religious persons or aggregate of convents living under a common rule; as, the Order of the Bath; the Franciscan order.",
        "An ecclesiastical grade or rank, as of deacon, priest, or bishop; the office of the Christian ministry; -- often used in the plural; as, to take orders, or to take holy orders, that is, to enter some grade of the ministry.",
        "The disposition of a column and its component parts, and of the entablature resting upon it, in classical architecture; hence (as the column and entablature are the characteristic features of classical architecture) a style or manner of architectural designing.",
        "An assemblage of genera having certain important characters in common; as, the Carnivora and Insectivora are orders of Mammalia.",
        "The placing of words and members in a sentence in such a manner as to contribute to force and beauty or clearness of expression.",
        "Rank; degree; thus, the order of a curve or surface is the same as the degree of its equation.",
        "To put in order; to reduce to a methodical arrangement; to arrange in a series, or with reference to an end. Hence, to regulate; to dispose; to direct; to rule.",
        "To give an order to; to command; as, to order troops to advance.",
        "To give an order for; to secure by an order; as, to order a carriage; to order groceries.",
        "To admit to holy orders; to ordain; to receive into the ranks of the ministry.",
        "To give orders; to issue commands."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The side chambers were . . . thirty in order.",
        "Bright-harnessed angels sit in order serviceable.",
        "Good order is the foundation of all good things.",
        "And, pregnant with his grander thought, Brought the old order into doubt.",
        "The church hath authority to establish that for an order at one time which at another time it may abolish.",
        "Upon this new fright, an order was made by both houses for disarming all the papists in England.",
        "In those days were pit orders -- beshrew the uncomfortable manager who abolished them.",
        "They are in equal order to their several ends.",
        "Various orders various ensigns bear.",
        "Which, to his order of mind, must have seemed little short of crime.",
        "Find a barefoot brother out, One of our order, to associate me.",
        "The venerable order of the Knights Templars.",
        "Whiles I take order for mine own affairs.",
        "To him that ordereth his conversation aright.",
        "Warriors old with ordered spear and shield.",
        "These ordered folk be especially titled to God.",
        "Persons presented to be ordered deacons."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. ordre, F. ordre, fr. L. ordo, ordinis. Cf. Ordain, Ordinal.]"
}