{
    "word": "Ordinary",
    "definitions": [
        "According to established order; methodical; settled; regular.",
        "Common; customary; usual.",
        "Of common rank, quality, or ability; not distinguished by superior excellence or beauty; hence, not distinguished in any way; commonplace; inferior; of little merit; as, men of ordinary judgment; an ordinary book.",
        "An officer who has original jurisdiction in his own right, and not by deputation.",
        "One who has immediate jurisdiction in matters ecclesiastical; an ecclesiastical judge; also, a deputy of the bishop, or a clergyman appointed to perform divine service for condemned criminals and assist in preparing them for death.",
        "A judicial officer, having generally the powers of a judge of probate or a surrogate.",
        "The mass; the common run.",
        "That which is so common, or continued, as to be considered a settled establishment or institution.",
        "Anything which is in ordinary or common use.",
        "A dining room or eating house where a meal is prepared for all comers, at a fixed price for the meal, in distinction from one where each dish is separately charged; a table d'h Shak. [1913 Webster]",
        "A charge or bearing of simple form, one of nine or ten which are in constant use. The bend, chevron, chief, cross, fesse, pale, and saltire are uniformly admitted as ordinaries. Some authorities include bar, bend sinister, pile, and others. See Subordinary."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Method is not less requisite in ordinary conversation that in writing.",
        "An ordinary lad would have acquired little or no useful knowledge in such a way.",
        "I see no more in you than in the ordinary Of nature's salework.",
        "Spain had no other wars save those which were grown into an ordinary.",
        "Water buckets, wagons, cart wheels, plow socks, and other ordinaries.",
        "All the odd words they have picked up in a coffeehouse, or a gaming ordinary, are produced as flowers of style.",
        "He exacted a tribute for licenses to hawkers and peddlers and to ordinaries."
    ],
    "etymology": "[L. ordinarius, fr. ordo, ordinis, order: cf. F. ordinaire. See Order.]"
}