{
    "word": "Out",
    "definitions": [
        "In its original and strict sense, out means from the interior of something; beyond the limits or boundary of somethings; in a position or relation which is exterior to something; -- opposed to in or into. The something may be expressed after of, from, etc. (see Out of, below); or, if not expressed, it is implied; as, he is out; or, he is out of the house, office, business, etc.; he came out; or, he came out from the ship, meeting, sect, party, etc.",
        "Away; abroad; off; from home, or from a certain, or a usual, place; not in; not in a particular, or a usual, place; as, the proprietor is out, his team was taken out. Opposite of in.",
        "Beyond the limits of concealment, confinement, privacy, constraint, etc., actual or figurative; hence, not in concealment, constraint, etc., in, or into, a state of freedom, openness, disclosure, publicity, etc.; a matter of public knowledge; as, the sun shines out; he laughed out, to be out at the elbows; the secret has leaked out, or is out; the disease broke out on his face; the book is out.",
        "Beyond the limit of existence, continuance, or supply; to the end; completely; hence, in, or into, a condition of extinction, exhaustion, completion; as, the fuel, or the fire, has burned out; that style is on the way out.",
        "Beyond possession, control, or occupation; hence, in, or into, a state of want, loss, or deprivation; -- used of office, business, property, knowledge, etc.; as, the Democrats went out and the Whigs came in; he put his money out at interest.",
        "Beyond the bounds of what is true, reasonable, correct, proper, common, etc.; in error or mistake; in a wrong or incorrect position or opinion; in a state of disagreement, opposition, etc.; in an inharmonious relation.",
        "Not in the position to score in playing a game; not in the state or turn of the play for counting or gaining scores.",
        "Out of fashion; unfashionable; no longer in current vogue; unpopular.",
        "One who, or that which, is out; especially, one who is out of office; -- generally in the plural.",
        "A place or space outside of something; a nook or corner; an angle projecting outward; an open space; -- chiefly used in the phrase ins and outs; as, the ins and outs of a question. See under In.",
        "A word or words omitted by the compositor in setting up copy; an omission.",
        "To cause to be out; to eject; to expel.",
        "To come out with; to make known.",
        "To make public a secret of (a person); -- used especially of publicizing the fact that a person is homosexual; as, the gay members were not pleased to be outed by the investigator.",
        "To give out; to dispose of; to sell.",
        "To come or go out; to get out or away; to become public.",
        "Expressing impatience, anger, a desire to be rid of; -- with the force of command; go out; begone; away; off."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "He hath been out (of the country) nine years.",
        "Leaves are out and perfect in a month.",
        "She has not been out [in general society] very long.",
        "Deceitful men shall not live out half their days.",
        "When the butt is out, we will drink water.",
        "I have forgot my part, and I am out.",
        "Wicked men are strangely out in the calculating of their own interest.",
        "Very seldom out, in these his guesses.",
        "A king outed from his country.",
        "The French have been outed of their holds.",
        "[The play In and Out was] ... inspired by the way Tom Hanks clumsily outed his high school drama teacher during his Oscar-acceptance speech for his performance in Stephanie Zacharek [PJC]",
        "Out, idle words, servants to shallow fools!"
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. out, ut, oute, ute, AS. , and , , fr. ; akin to D. uit, OS. , G. aus, OHG. , Icel. , Sw. ut, Dan. ud, Goth. ut, Skr. ud. About, But, prep., Carouse, Utter, a.]"
}