{
    "word": "Parallel",
    "definitions": [
        "Extended in the same direction, and in all parts equally distant; as, parallel lines; parallel planes.",
        "Having the same direction or tendency; running side by side; being in accordance (with); tending to the same result; -- used with to and with.",
        "Continuing a resemblance through many particulars; applicable in all essential parts; like; similar; as, a parallel case; a parallel passage.",
        "A line which, throughout its whole extent, is equidistant from another line; a parallel line, a parallel plane, etc.",
        "Direction conformable to that of another line,",
        "Conformity continued through many particulars or in all essential points; resemblance; similarity.",
        "A comparison made; elaborate tracing of similarity; as, Johnson's parallel between Dryden and Pope.",
        "Anything equal to, or resembling, another in all essential particulars; a counterpart.",
        "One of the imaginary circles on the surface of the earth, parallel to the equator, marking the latitude; also, the corresponding line on a globe or map; as, the counry was divided into North and South at the 38th parallel.",
        "One of a series of long trenches constructed before a besieged fortress, by the besieging force, as a cover for troops supporting the attacking batteries. They are roughly parallel to the line of outer defenses of the fortress.",
        "A character consisting of two parallel vertical lines (thus, \\'d8) used in the text to direct attention to a similarly marked note in the margin or at the foot of a page.",
        "That arrangement of an electrical system in which all positive poles, electrodes, terminals, etc., are joined to one conductor, and all negative poles, etc., to another conductor; -- called also multiple. Opposed to series.",
        "To place or set so as to be parallel; to place so as to be parallel to, or to conform in direction with, something else.",
        "Fig.: To make to conform to something else in character, motive, aim, or the like.",
        "To equal; to match; to correspond to.",
        "To produce or adduce as a parallel.",
        "To be parallel; to correspond; to be like."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Revolutions . . . parallel to the equinoctial.",
        "When honor runs parallel with the laws of God and our country, it can not be too much cherished.",
        "Who made the spider parallels design, Sure as De Moivre, without rule or line ?",
        "Lines that from their parallel decline.",
        "Twixt earthly females and the moon All parallels exactly run.",
        "None but thyself can be thy parallel.",
        "The needle . . . doth parallel and place itself upon the true meridian.",
        "His life is paralleled Even with the stroke and line of his great justice.",
        "My young remembrance can not parallel A fellow to it."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. parall, L. parallelus, fr. Gr. para` beside + alius. See Alien.]"
}