{
    "word": "Part",
    "definitions": [
        "An equal constituent portion; one of several or many like quantities, numbers, etc., into which anything is divided, or of which it is composed; proportional division or ingredient.",
        "A constituent portion of a living or spiritual whole; a member; an organ; an essential element.",
        "A constituent of character or capacity; quality; faculty; talent; -- usually in the plural with a collective sense.",
        "Quarter; region; district; -- usually in the plural.",
        "Such portion of any quantity, as when taken a certain number of times, will exactly make that quantity; as, 3 is a part of 12; -- the opposite of multiple. Also, a line or other element of a geometrical figure.",
        "That which belongs to one, or which is assumed by one, or which falls to one, in a division or apportionment; share; portion; lot; interest; concern; duty; office.",
        "One of the opposing parties or sides in a conflict or a controversy; a faction.",
        "A particular character in a drama or a play; an assumed personification; also, the language, actions, and influence of a character or an actor in a play; or, figuratively, in real life; as, to play the part of Macbeth. See To act a part, under Act.",
        "One of the different melodies of a concerted composition, which heard in union compose its harmony; also, the music for each voice or instrument; as, the treble, tenor, or bass part; the violin part, etc.",
        "To divide; to separate into distinct parts; to break into two or more parts or pieces; to sever.",
        "To divide into shares; to divide and distribute; to allot; to apportion; to share.",
        "To separate or disunite; to cause to go apart; to remove from contact or contiguity; to sunder.",
        "To hold apart; to stand between; to intervene betwixt, as combatants.",
        "To separate by a process of extraction, elimination, or secretion; as, to part gold from silver.",
        "To leave; to quit.",
        "To separate (a collection of objects) into smaller collections; as, to part one's hair in the middle.",
        "To be broken or divided into parts or pieces; to break; to become separated; to go asunder; as, rope parts; his hair parts in the middle.",
        "To go away; to depart; to take leave; to quit each other; hence, to die; -- often with from.",
        "To perform an act of parting; to relinquish a connection of any kind; -- followed by with or from; as, to part with one's money.",
        "To have a part or share; to partake.",
        "Partly; in a measure."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "And kept back part of the price, . . . and brought a certain part and laid it at the apostles'feet.",
        "Our ideas of extension and number -- do they not contain a secret relation of the parts ?",
        "I am a part of all that I have met.",
        "An homer is the tenth part of an ephah.",
        "A thought which, quartered, hath but one part wisdom, And ever three parts coward.",
        "All the parts were formed . . . into one harmonious body.",
        "The pulse, the glow of every part.",
        "Which maintained so politic a state of evil, that they will not admit any good part to intermingle with them.",
        "All parts resound with tumults, plaints, and fears.",
        "We have no part in David.",
        "Accuse not Nature! she hath done her part; Do thou but thine.",
        "Let me bear My part of danger with an equal share.",
        "For he that is not against us is on our part.",
        "Make whole kingdoms take her brother's part.",
        "That part Was aptly fitted and naturally performed.",
        "It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf.",
        "Honor and shame from no condition rise; Act well your part, there all the honor lies.",
        "There, [celestial love] parted into rainbow hues.",
        "To part his throne, and share his heaven with thee.",
        "They parted my raiment among them.",
        "The Lord do so to me, and more also, if aught but death part thee and me.",
        "While he blessed them, he was parted from them, and carried up into heaven.",
        "The narrow seas that part The French and English.",
        "The stumbling night did part our weary powers.",
        "The liver minds his own affair, . . . And parts and strains the vital juices.",
        "Since presently your souls must part your bodies.",
        "He wrung Bassanio's hand, and so they parted.",
        "He owned that he had parted from the duke only a few hours before.",
        "His precious bag, which he would by no means part from.",
        "Celia, for thy sake, I part With all that grew so near my heart.",
        "Powerful hands . . . will not part Easily from possession won with arms.",
        "It was strange to him that a father should feel no tenderness at parting with an only son."
    ],
    "etymology": null
}