{
    "word": "Particular",
    "definitions": [
        "Relating to a part or portion of anything; concerning a part separated from the whole or from others of the class; separate; sole; single; individual; specific; as, the particular stars of a constellation.",
        "Of or pertaining to a single person, class, or thing; belonging to one only; not general; not common; hence, personal; peculiar; singular.",
        "Separate or distinct by reason of superiority; distinguished; important; noteworthy; unusual; special; as, he brought no particular news; she was the particular belle of the party.",
        "Concerned with, or attentive to, details; minute; circumstantial; precise; as, a full and particular account of an accident; hence, nice; fastidious; as, a man particular in his dress.",
        "Containing a part only; limited; as, a particular estate, or one precedent to an estate in remainder.",
        "Holding a particular estate; as, a particular tenant.",
        "Forming a part of a genus; relatively limited in extension; affirmed or denied of a part of a subject; as, a particular proposition; -- opposed to universal: e. g. (particular affirmative) Some men are wise; (particular negative) Some men are not wise.",
        "A separate or distinct member of a class, or part of a whole; an individual fact, point, circumstance, detail, or item, which may be considered separately; as, the particulars of a story.",
        "Special or personal peculiarity, trait, or character; individuality; interest, etc.",
        "One of the details or items of grounds of claim; -- usually in the pl.; also, a bill of particulars; a minute account; as, a particular of premises."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "[Make] each particular hair to stand an end, Like quills upon the fretful porpentine.",
        "Seken in every halk and every herne Particular sciences for to lerne.",
        "Wheresoever one plant draweth such a particular juice out of the earth.",
        "Particulars which it is not lawful for me to reveal.",
        "It is the greatest interest of particulars to advance the good of the community.",
        "For his particular I'll receive him gladly.",
        "If the particulars of each person be considered.",
        "Temporal blessings, whether such as concern the public . . . or such as concern our particular.",
        "The reader has a particular of the books wherein this law was written."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. particuler, F. particulier, L. particularis. See Particle.]"
}