{
    "word": "Passage",
    "definitions": [
        "The act of passing; transit from one place to another; movement from point to point; a going by, over, across, or through; as, the passage of a man or a carriage; the passage of a ship or a bird; the passage of light; the passage of fluids through the pores or channels of the body.",
        "Transit by means of conveyance; journey, as by water, carriage, car, or the like; travel; right, liberty, or means, of passing; conveyance.",
        "Price paid for the liberty to pass; fare; as, to pay one's passage.",
        "Removal from life; decease; departure; death.",
        "Way; road; path; channel or course through or by which one passes; way of exit or entrance; way of access or transit. Hence, a common avenue to various apartments in a building; a hall; a corridor.",
        "A continuous course, process, or progress; a connected or continuous series; as, the passage of time.",
        "A separate part of a course, process, or series; an occurrence; an incident; an act or deed.",
        "A particular portion constituting a part of something continuous; esp., a portion of a book, speech, or musical composition; a paragraph; a clause.",
        "Reception; currency.",
        "A pass or en encounter; as, a passage at arms.",
        "A movement or an evacuation of the bowels.",
        "In parliamentary proceedings: (a) The course of a proposition (bill, resolution, etc.) through the several stages of consideration and action; as, during its passage through Congress the bill was amended in both Houses. (b) The advancement of a bill or other proposition from one stage to another by an affirmative vote; esp., the final affirmative action of the body upon a proposition; hence, adoption; enactment; as, the passage of the bill to its third reading was delayed."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "What! are my doors opposed against my passage!",
        "The ship in which he had taken passage.",
        "When he is fit and season'd for his passage.",
        "And with his pointed dart Explores the nearest passage to his heart.",
        "The Persian army had advanced into the . . . passages of Cilicia.",
        "The conduct and passage of affairs.",
        "The passage and whole carriage of this action.",
        "The . . . almost incredible passage of their unbelief.",
        "How commentators each dark passage shun.",
        "No passages of love Betwixt us twain henceforward evermore.",
        "The final question was then put upon its passage."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. passage. See Pass, v. i.]"
}