{
    "word": "Pass",
    "definitions": [
        "To move or be transferred from one state or condition to another; to change possession, condition, or circumstances; to undergo transition; as, the business has passed into other hands.",
        "To move beyond the range of the senses or of knowledge; to pass away; hence, to disappear; to vanish; to depart; specifically, to depart from life; to die.",
        "To move or to come into being or under notice; to come and go in consciousness; hence, to take place; to occur; to happen; to come; to occur progressively or in succession; to be present transitorily.",
        "To go by or glide by, as time; to elapse; to be spent; as, their vacation passed pleasantly.",
        "To go from one person to another; hence, to be given and taken freely; as, clipped coin will not pass; to obtain general acceptance; to be held or regarded; to circulate; to be current; -- followed by for before a word denoting value or estimation.",
        "To advance through all the steps or stages necessary to validity or effectiveness; to be carried through a body that has power to sanction or reject; to receive legislative sanction; to be enacted; as, the resolution passed; the bill passed both houses of Congress.",
        "To go through any inspection or test successfully; to be approved or accepted; as, he attempted the examination, but did not expect to pass.",
        "To be suffered to go on; to be tolerated; hence, to continue; to live along.",
        "To go unheeded or neglected; to proceed without hindrance or opposition; as, we let this act pass.",
        "To go beyond bounds; to surpass; to be in excess.",
        "To take heed; to care.",
        "To go through the intestines.",
        "To be conveyed or transferred by will, deed, or other instrument of conveyance; as, an estate passes by a certain clause in a deed.",
        "To make a lunge or pass; to thrust.",
        "To decline to play in one's turn; in euchre, to decline to make the trump.",
        "To go by, beyond, over, through, or the like; to proceed from one side to the other of; as, to pass a house, a stream, a boundary, etc.",
        "To go from one limit to the other of; to spend; to live through; to have experience of; to undergo; to suffer.",
        "To go by without noticing; to omit attention to; to take no note of; to disregard.",
        "To transcend; to surpass; to excel; to exceed.",
        "To go successfully through, as an examination, trail, test, etc.; to obtain the formal sanction of, as a legislative body; as, he passed his examination; the bill passed the senate.",
        "To cause to move or go; to send; to transfer from one person, place, or condition to another; to transmit; to deliver; to hand; to make over; as, the waiter passed bisquit and cheese; the torch was passed from hand to hand.",
        "To cause to pass the lips; to utter; to pronounce; hence, to promise; to pledge; as, to pass sentence.",
        "To cause to advance by stages of progress; to carry on with success through an ordeal, examination, or action; specifically, to give legal or official sanction to; to ratify; to enact; to approve as valid and just; as, he passed the bill through the committee; the senate passed the law.",
        "To put in circulation; to give currency to; as, to pass counterfeit money.",
        "To emit from the bowels; to evacuate.",
        "To take a turn with (a line, gasket, etc.), as around a sail in furling, and make secure.",
        "To make, as a thrust, punto, etc.",
        "An opening, road, or track, available for passing; especially, one through or over some dangerous or otherwise impracticable barrier; a passageway; a defile; a ford; as, a mountain pass.",
        "A thrust or push; an attempt to stab or strike an adversary.",
        "A movement of the hand over or along anything; the manipulation of a mesmerist.",
        "A single passage of a bar, rail, sheet, etc., between the rolls.",
        "State of things; condition; predicament.",
        "Permission or license to pass, or to go and come; a psssport; a ticket permitting free transit or admission; as, a railroad or theater pass; a military pass.",
        "Fig.: a thrust; a sally of wit.",
        "Estimation; character.",
        "A part; a division.",
        "In football, hockey, and other team sports, a transfer of the ball, puck, etc., to another player of one's own team, usually at some distance. In American football, the pass is through the air by an act of throwing the ball."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "On high behests his angels to and fro Passed frequent.",
        "Sweet sounds rose slowly through their mouths, And from their bodies passed.",
        "Others, dissatisfied with what they have, . . . pass from just to unjust.",
        "Disturb him not, let him pass paceably.",
        "Beauty is a charm, but soon the charm will pass.",
        "The passing of the sweetest soul That ever looked with human eyes.",
        "So death passed upon all men.",
        "Our own consciousness of what passes within our own mind.",
        "Now the time is far passed.",
        "False eloquence passeth only where true is not understood.",
        "This will not pass for a fault in him.",
        "As for these silken-coated slaves, I pass not.",
        "She would not play, yet must not pass.",
        "She loved me for the dangers I had passed.",
        "Please you that I may pass This doing.",
        "I pass their warlike pomp, their proud array.",
        "And strive to pass . . . Their native music by her skillful art.",
        "Whose tender power Passes the strength of storms in their most desolate hour.",
        "I had only time to pass my eye over the medals.",
        "Waller passed over five thousand horse and foot by Newbridge.",
        "Father, thy word is passed.",
        "pass! Longfellow. [1913 Webster]",
        "Have his daughters brought him to this pass.",
        "Matters have been brought to this pass.",
        "A ship sailing under the flag and pass of an enemy.",
        "Common speech gives him a worthy pass."
    ],
    "etymology": "[Cf. F. pas (for sense 1), and passe, fr. passer to pass. See Pass, v. i.]"
}