{
    "word": "Pay",
    "definitions": [
        "To satisfy, or content; specifically, to satisfy (another person) for service rendered, property delivered, etc.; to discharge one's obligation to; to make due return to; to compensate; to remunerate; to recompense; to requite; as, to pay workmen or servants.",
        "Hence, figuratively: To compensate justly; to requite according to merit; to reward; to punish; to retort or retaliate upon.",
        "To discharge, as a debt, demand, or obligation, by giving or doing what is due or required; to deliver the amount or value of to the person to whom it is owing; to discharge a debt by delivering (money owed).",
        "To discharge or fulfill, as a duy; to perform or render duty, as that which has been promised.",
        "To give or offer, without an implied obligation; as, to pay attention; to pay a visit.",
        "Hence, to make or secure suitable return for expense or trouble; to be remunerative or profitable; to be worth the effort or pains required; as, it will pay to ride; it will pay to wait; politeness always pays.",
        "Satisfaction; content.",
        "An equivalent or return for money due, goods purchased, or services performed; salary or wages for work or service; compensation; recompense; payment; hire; as, the pay of a clerk; the pay of a soldier."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "May no penny ale them pay [i. e., satisfy].",
        "[She] pays me with disdain.",
        "For which, or pay me quickly, or I'll pay you.",
        "Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all.",
        "If they pay this tax, they starve.",
        "This day have I paid my vows.",
        "Not paying me a welcome.",
        "The wicked borroweth, and payeth not again.",
        "'T was I paid for your sleeps; I watched your wakings.",
        "Where only merit constant pay receives.",
        "There is neither pay nor plunder to be got."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. paien, F. payer, fr. L. pacare to pacify, appease, fr. pax, pacis, peace. See Peace.]"
}