{
    "word": "Pitch",
    "definitions": [
        "See Pitchstone.",
        "To cover over or smear with pitch.",
        "Fig.: To darken; to blacken; to obscure.",
        "To throw, generally with a definite aim or purpose; to cast; to hurl; to toss; as, to pitch quoits; to pitch hay; to pitch a ball.",
        "To thrust or plant in the ground, as stakes or poles; hence, to fix firmly, as by means of poles; to establish; to arrange; as, to pitch a tent; to pitch a camp.",
        "To set, face, or pave with rubble or undressed stones, as an embankment or a roadway.",
        "To fix or set the tone of; as, to pitch a tune.",
        "To set or fix, as a price or value.",
        "To fix or place a tent or temporary habitation; to encamp.",
        "To light; to settle; to come to rest from flight.",
        "To fix one's choise; -- with on or upon.",
        "To plunge or fall; esp., to fall forward; to decline or slope; as, to pitch from a precipice; the vessel pitches in a heavy sea; the field pitches toward the east.",
        "A throw; a toss; a cast, as of something from the hand; as, a good pitch in quoits.",
        "That point of the ground on which the ball pitches or lights when bowled.",
        "A point or peak; the extreme point or degree of elevation or depression; hence, a limit or bound.",
        "Height; stature.",
        "A descent; a fall; a thrusting down.",
        "The point where a declivity begins; hence, the declivity itself; a descending slope; the degree or rate of descent or slope; slant; as, a steep pitch in the road; the pitch of a roof.",
        "The relative acuteness or gravity of a tone, determined by the number of vibrations which produce it; the place of any tone upon a scale of high and low.",
        "The limit of ground set to a miner who receives a share of the ore taken out.",
        "The distance from center to center of any two adjacent teeth of gearing, measured on the pitch line; -- called also circular pitch.",
        "The length, measured along the axis, of a complete turn of the thread of a screw, or of the helical lines of the blades of a screw propeller.",
        "The distance between the centers of holes, as of rivet holes in boiler plates.",
        "The distance between symmetrically arranged or corresponding parts of an armature, measured along a line, called the pitch line, drawn around its length. Sometimes half of this distance is called the pitch."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "He that toucheth pitch shall be defiled therewith.",
        "The welkin pitched with sullen could.",
        "The tree whereon they [the bees] pitch.",
        "Pitch upon the best course of life, and custom will render it the more easy.",
        "Driven headlong from the pitch of heaven, down Into this deep.",
        "Enterprises of great pitch and moment.",
        "To lowest pitch of abject fortune.",
        "He lived when learning was at its highest pitch.",
        "The exact pitch, or limits, where temperance ends."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. pich, AS. pic, L. pix; akin to Gr. 1. A thick, black, lustrous, and sticky substance obtained by boiling down tar. It is used in calking the seams of ships; also in coating rope, canvas, wood, ironwork, etc., to preserve them. [1913 Webster]"
}