{
    "word": "Plate",
    "definitions": [
        "A flat, or nearly flat, piece of metal, the thickness of which is small in comparison with the other dimensions; a thick sheet of metal; as, a steel plate.",
        "Metallic armor composed of broad pieces.",
        "Domestic vessels and utensils, as flagons, dishes, cups, etc., wrought in gold or silver.",
        "Metallic ware which is plated, in distinction from that which is silver or gold throughout.",
        "A small, shallow, and usually circular, vessel of metal or wood, or of earth glazed and baked, from which food is eaten at table.",
        "A piece of money, usually silver money.",
        "A piece of metal on which anything is engraved for the purpose of being printed; hence, an impression from the engraved metal; as, a book illustrated with plates; a fashion plate.",
        "A page of stereotype, electrotype, or the like, for printing from; as, publisher's plates.",
        "That part of an artificial set of teeth which fits to the mouth, and holds the teeth in place. It may be of gold, platinum, silver, rubber, celluloid, etc.",
        "A horizontal timber laid upon a wall, or upon corbels projecting from a wall, and supporting the ends of other timbers; also used specifically of the roof plate which supports the ends of the roof trusses or, in simple work, the feet of the rafters.",
        "A roundel of silver or tinctured argent.",
        "A sheet of glass, porcelain, metal, etc., with a coating that is sensitive to light.",
        "A prize giving to the winner in a contest.",
        "A small five-sided area (enveloping a diamond-shaped area one foot square) beside which the batter stands and which must be touched by some part of a player on completing a run; -- called also home base, or home plate.",
        "One of the thin parts of the bricket of an animal.",
        "A very light steel racing horsehoe.",
        "Loosely, a sporting contest for a prize; specif., in horse racing, a race for a prize, the contestants not making a stake.",
        "Skins for fur linings of garments, sewed together and roughly shaped, but not finally cut or fitted.",
        "The fine nap (as of beaver, hare's wool, musquash, nutria, or English black wool) on a hat the body of which is of an inferior substance.",
        "a quantity sufficient to fill a plate; a plateful; a dish containing that quantity; a plate of spaghetti.",
        "the food and service supplied to a customer at a restaurant; as, the turkey dinner is $9 a plate; I'll have a plate of spaghetti.",
        "a flat dish of glass or plastic with a fitted cover, used for culturing microorganisms in a laboratory.",
        "the identification tag required to be displayed on the outside of a vehicle; same as license plate; -- often used in the plural.",
        "an agenda or schedule of tasks to be performed; I have a lot on my plate today.",
        "To cover or overlay with gold, silver, or other metals, either by a mechanical process, as hammering, or by a chemical process, as electrotyping.",
        "To cover or overlay with plates of metal; to arm with metal for defense.",
        "To adorn with plated metal; as, a plated harness.",
        "To beat into thin, flat pieces, or lamin [1913 Webster]",
        "To calender; as, to plate paper."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Mangled . . . through plate and mail.",
        "Thus plated in habiliments of war."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OF. plate a plate of metal, a cuirsas, F. plat a plate, a shallow vessel of silver, other metal, or earth, fr. plat flat, Gr. Place, n.]"
}