{
    "word": "Play",
    "definitions": [
        "To engage in sport or lively recreation; to exercise for the sake of amusement; to frolic; to spot.",
        "To act with levity or thoughtlessness; to trifle; to be careless.",
        "To contend, or take part, in a game; as, to play ball; hence, to gamble; as, he played for heavy stakes.",
        "To perform on an instrument of music; as, to play on a flute.",
        "To act; to behave; to practice deception.",
        "To move in any manner; especially, to move regularly with alternate or reciprocating motion; to operate; to act; as, the fountain plays.",
        "To move gayly; to wanton; to disport.",
        "To act on the stage; to personate a character.",
        "To put in action or motion; as, to play cannon upon a fortification; to play a trump.",
        "To perform music upon; as, to play the flute or the organ.",
        "To perform, as a piece of music, on an instrument; as, to play a waltz on the violin.",
        "To bring into sportive or wanton action; to exhibit in action; to execute; as, to play tricks.",
        "To act or perform (a play); to represent in music action; as, to play a comedy; also, to act in the character of; to represent by acting; to simulate; to behave like; as, to play King Lear; to play the woman.",
        "To engage in, or go together with, as a contest for amusement or for a wager or prize; as, to play a game at baseball.",
        "To keep in play, as a hooked fish, in order to land it.",
        "Amusement; sport; frolic; gambols.",
        "Any exercise, or series of actions, intended for amusement or diversion; a game.",
        "The act or practice of contending for victory, amusement, or a prize, as at dice, cards, or billiards; gaming; as, to lose a fortune in play.",
        "Action; use; employment; exercise; practice; as, fair play; sword play; a play of wit.",
        "A dramatic composition; a comedy or tragedy; a composition in which characters are represented by dialogue and action.",
        "The representation or exhibition of a comedy or tragedy; as, he attends ever play.",
        "Performance on an instrument of music.",
        "Motion; movement, regular or irregular; as, the play of a wheel or piston; hence, also, room for motion; free and easy action.",
        "Hence, liberty of acting; room for enlargement or display; scope; as, to give full play to mirth."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "As Cannace was playing in her walk.",
        "The lamb thy riot dooms to bleed to-day, Had he thy reason, would he skip and play!",
        "And some, the darlings of their Lord, Play smiling with the flame and sword.",
        "pleye.",
        "Men are apt to play with their healths.",
        "One that . . . can play well on an instrument.",
        "Play, my friend, and charm the charmer.",
        "His mother played false with a smith.",
        "The heart beats, the blood circulates, the lungs play.",
        "Even as the waving sedges play with wind.",
        "The setting sun Plays on their shining arms and burnished helmets.",
        "All fame is foreign but of true desert, Plays round the head, but comes not to the heart.",
        "A lord will hear your play to-night.",
        "Courts are theaters where some men play.",
        "Art thou alive? Or is it fantasy that plays upon our eyesight.",
        "First Peace and Silence all disputes control, Then Order plays the soul.",
        "Nature here Wantoned as in her prime, and played at will Her virgin fancies.",
        "Thou canst play the rational if thou wilt.",
        "John naturally loved rough play.",
        "A play ought to be a just image of human nature.",
        "The joints are let exactly into one another, that they have no play between them.",
        "I, with two more to help me, Will hold the foe in play."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. pleien, AS. plegian, plegan, to play, akin to plega play, game, quick motion, and probably to OS. plegan to promise, pledge, D. plegen to care for, attend to, be wont, G. pflegen; of unknown origin. Plight, n.]"
}