{
    "word": "Pledge",
    "definitions": [
        "The transfer of possession of personal property from a debtor to a creditor as security for a debt or engagement; also, the contract created between the debtor and creditor by a thing being so delivered or deposited, forming a species of bailment; also, that which is so delivered or deposited; something put in pawn.",
        "A person who undertook, or became responsible, for another; a bail; a surety; a hostage.",
        "A hypothecation without transfer of possession.",
        "Anything given or considered as a security for the performance of an act; a guarantee; as, mutual interest is the best pledge for the performance of treaties.",
        "A promise or agreement by which one binds one's self to do, or to refrain from doing, something; especially, a solemn promise in writing to refrain from using intoxicating liquors or the like; as, to sign the pledge; the mayor had made no pledges.",
        "A sentiment to which assent is given by drinking one's health; a toast; a health.",
        "To deposit, as a chattel, in pledge or pawn; to leave in possession of another as security; as, to pledge one's watch.",
        "To give or pass as a security; to guarantee; to engage; to plight; as, to pledge one's word and honor.",
        "To secure performance of, as by a pledge.",
        "To bind or engage by promise or declaration; to engage solemnly; as, to pledge one's self.",
        "To invite another to drink, by drinking of the cup first, and then handing it to him, as a pledge of good will; hence, to drink the health of; to toast."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "We mutually pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor.",
        "To pledge my vow, I give my hand.",
        "Pledge me, my friend, and drink till thou be'st wise."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OF. plege, pleige, pledge, guaranty, LL. plegium, plivium; akin to OF. plevir to bail, guaranty, perhaps fr. L. praebere to proffer, offer (sc. fidem a trust, a promise of security), but cf. also E. play. Prebend, Replevin.]"
}