{
    "word": "Point",
    "definitions": [
        "To appoint.",
        "That which pricks or pierces; the sharp end of anything, esp. the sharp end of a piercing instrument, as a needle or a pin.",
        "An instrument which pricks or pierces, as a sort of needle used by engravers, etchers, lace workers, and others; also, a pointed cutting tool, as a stone cutter's point; -- called also pointer.",
        "Anything which tapers to a sharp, well-defined termination. Specifically: A small promontory or cape; a tract of land extending into the water beyond the common shore line.",
        "The mark made by the end of a sharp, piercing instrument, as a needle; a prick.",
        "An indefinitely small space; a mere spot indicated or supposed. Specifically: (Geom.) That which has neither parts nor magnitude; that which has position, but has neither length, breadth, nor thickness, -- sometimes conceived of as the limit of a line; that by the motion of which a line is conceived to be produced.",
        "An indivisible portion of time; a moment; an instant; hence, the verge.",
        "A mark of punctuation; a character used to mark the divisions of a composition, or the pauses to be observed in reading, or to point off groups of figures, etc.; a stop, as a comma, a semicolon, and esp. a period; hence, figuratively, an end, or conclusion.",
        "Whatever serves to mark progress, rank, or relative position, or to indicate a transition from one state or position to another, degree; step; stage; hence, position or condition attained; as, a point of elevation, or of depression; the stock fell off five points; he won by tenpoints.",
        "That which arrests attention, or indicates qualities or character; a salient feature; a characteristic; a peculiarity; hence, a particular; an item; a detail; as, the good or bad points of a man, a horse, a book, a story, etc.",
        "Hence, the most prominent or important feature, as of an argument, discourse, etc.; the essential matter; esp., the proposition to be established; as, the point of an anecdote.",
        "A small matter; a trifle; a least consideration; a punctilio.",
        "A dot or mark used to designate certain tones or time",
        "A dot or mark distinguishing or characterizing certain tones or styles; as, points of perfection, of augmentation, etc.; hence, a note; a tune.",
        "A fixed conventional place for reference, or zero of reckoning, in the heavens, usually the intersection of two or more great circles of the sphere, and named specifically in each case according to the position intended; as, the equinoctial points; the solstitial points; the nodal points; vertical points, etc. See Equinoctial Nodal.",
        "One of the several different parts of the escutcheon. See Escutcheon.",
        "One of the points of the compass (see Points of the compass, below); also, the difference between two points of the compass; as, to fall off a point.",
        "A short piece of cordage used in reefing sails. See Reef point, under Reef.",
        "A a string or lace used to tie together certain parts of the dress.",
        "Lace wrought the needle; as, point de Venise; Brussels point. See Point lace, below.",
        "A switch.",
        "An item of private information; a hint; a tip; a pointer.",
        "A fielder who is stationed on the off side, about twelve or fifteen yards from, and a little in advance of, the batsman.",
        "The attitude assumed by a pointer dog when he finds game; as, the dog came to a point. See Pointer.",
        "A standard unit of measure for the size of type bodies, being one twelfth of the thickness of pica type. See Point system of type, under Type.",
        "A tyne or snag of an antler.",
        "One of the spaces on a backgammon board.",
        "A movement executed with the saber or foil; as, tierce point.",
        "A pointed piece of quill or bone covered at one end with vaccine matter; -- called also vaccine point.",
        "One of the raised dots used in certain systems of printing and writing for the blind. The first practical system was that devised by Louis Braille in 1829, and still used in Europe (see Braille). Two modifications of this are current in the United States: New York point founded on three bases of equidistant points arranged in two lines (viz., : :: :::), and a later improvement, American Braille, embodying the Braille base (:::) and the New-York-point principle of using the characters of few points for the commonest letters.",
        "In various games, a position of a certain player, or, by extension, the player himself;",
        "The position of the player of each side who stands a short distance in front of the goal keeper; also, the player himself.",
        "The position of the pitcher and catcher.",
        "A spot to which a straight run is made; hence, a straight run from point to point; a cross-country run.",
        "The perpendicular rising of a hawk over the place where its prey has gone into cover.",
        "Act of pointing, as of the foot downward in certain dance positions.",
        "To give a point to; to sharpen; to cut, forge, grind, or file to an acute end; as, to point a dart, or a pencil. Used also figuratively; as, to point a moral.",
        "To direct toward an abject; to aim; as, to point a gun at a wolf, or a cannon at a fort.",
        "Hence, to direct the attention or notice of.",
        "To supply with punctuation marks; to punctuate; as, to point a composition.",
        "To mark (a text, as in Arabic or Hebrew) with vowel points; -- also called vocalize.",
        "To give particular prominence to; to designate in a special manner; to indicate, as if by pointing; as, the error was pointed out.",
        "To indicate or discover by a fixed look, as game.",
        "To fill up and finish the joints of (a wall), by introducing additional cement or mortar, and bringing it to a smooth surface.",
        "To cut, as a surface, with a pointed tool.",
        "To direct the point of something, as of a finger, for the purpose of designating an object, and attracting attention to it; -- with at.",
        "To indicate the presence of game by fixed and steady look, as certain hunting dogs do.",
        "To approximate to the surface; to head; -- said of an abscess."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "When time's first point begun Made he all souls.",
        "And there a point, for ended is my tale.",
        "Commas and points they set exactly right.",
        "A lord full fat and in good point.",
        "He told him, point for point, in short and plain.",
        "In point of religion and in point of honor.",
        "Shalt thou dispute With Him the points of liberty ?",
        "They will hardly prove his point.",
        "This fellow doth not stand upon points.",
        "[He] cared not for God or man a point.",
        "Whosoever should be guided through his battles by Minerva, and pointed to every scene of them.",
        "He points it, however, by no deviation from his straightforward manner of speech.",
        "Now must the world point at poor Katharine.",
        "Point at the tattered coat and ragged shoe.",
        "He treads with caution, and he points with fear."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. point, and probably also pointe, L. punctum, puncta, fr. pungere, punctum, to prick. See Pungent, and cf. Puncto, Puncture.]"
}