{
    "word": "Port",
    "definitions": [
        "A dark red or purple astringent wine made in Portugal. It contains a large percentage of alcohol.",
        "A place where ships may ride secure from storms; a sheltered inlet, bay, or cove; a harbor; a haven. Used also figuratively.",
        "In law and commercial usage, a harbor where vessels are admitted to discharge and receive cargoes, from whence they depart and where they finish their voyages.",
        "A passageway; an opening or entrance to an inclosed place; a gate; a door; a portal.",
        "An opening in the side of a vessel; an embrasure through which cannon may be discharged; a porthole; also, the shutters which close such an opening.",
        "A passageway in a machine, through which a fluid, as steam, water, etc., may pass, as from a valve to the interior of the cylinder of a steam engine; an opening in a valve seat, or valve face.",
        "To carry; to bear; to transport.",
        "To throw, as a musket, diagonally across the body, with the lock in front, the right hand grasping the small of the stock, and the barrel sloping upward and crossing the point of the left shoulder; as, to port arms.",
        "The manner in which a person bears himself; deportment; carriage; bearing; demeanor; hence, manner or style of living; as, a proud port.",
        "The larboard or left side of a ship (looking from the stern toward the bow); as, a vessel heels to port. See Note under Larboard. Also used adjectively.",
        "To turn or put to the left or larboard side of a ship; -- said of the helm, and used chiefly in the imperative, as a command; as, port your helm."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Peering in maps for ports and piers and roads.",
        "We are in port if we have Thee.",
        "Him I accuse The city ports by this hath entered.",
        "Form their ivory port the cherubim Forth issuing.",
        "Her ports being within sixteen inches of the water.",
        "They are easily ported by boat into other shires.",
        "Began to hem him round with ported spears.",
        "And of his port as meek as is a maid.",
        "The necessities of pomp, grandeur, and a suitable port in the world."
    ],
    "etymology": "[From Oporto, in Portugal, i. e., the port, L. portus. See Port harbor.]"
}