{
    "word": "Practice",
    "definitions": [
        "Frequently repeated or customary action; habitual performance; a succession of acts of a similar kind; usage; habit; custom; as, the practice of rising early; the practice of making regular entries of accounts; the practice of daily exercise.",
        "Customary or constant use; state of being used.",
        "Skill or dexterity acquired by use; expertness.",
        "Actual performance; application of knowledge; -- opposed to theory.",
        "Systematic exercise for instruction or discipline; as, the troops are called out for practice; she neglected practice in music.",
        "Application of science to the wants of men; the exercise of any profession; professional business; as, the practice of medicine or law; a large or lucrative practice.",
        "Skillful or artful management; dexterity in contrivance or the use of means; art; stratagem; artifice; plot; -- usually in a bad sense.",
        "A easy and concise method of applying the rules of arithmetic to questions which occur in trade and business.",
        "The form, manner, and order of conducting and carrying on suits and prosecutions through their various stages, according to the principles of law and the rules laid down by the courts.",
        "To do or perform frequently, customarily, or habitually; to make a practice of; as, to practice gaming.",
        "To exercise, or follow, as a profession, trade, art, etc., as, to practice law or medicine.",
        "To exercise one's self in, for instruction or improvement, or to acquire discipline or dexterity; as, to practice gunnery; to practice music.",
        "To put into practice; to carry out; to act upon; to commit; to execute; to do.",
        "To make use of; to employ.",
        "To teach or accustom by practice; to train.",
        "To perform certain acts frequently or customarily, either for instruction, profit, or amusement; as, to practice with the broadsword or with the rifle; to practice on the piano.",
        "To learn by practice; to form a habit.",
        "To try artifices or stratagems.",
        "To apply theoretical science or knowledge, esp. by way of experiment; to exercise or pursue an employment or profession, esp. that of medicine or of law."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "A heart . . . exercised with covetous practices.",
        "Obsolete words may be revived when they are more sounding or more significant than those in practice.",
        "There are two functions of the soul, -- contemplation and practice.",
        "There is a distinction, but no opposition, between theory and practice; each, to a certain extent, supposes the other; theory is dependent on practice; practice must have preceded theory.",
        "Practice is exercise of an art, or the application of a science in life, which application is itself an art.",
        "He sought to have that by practice which he could not by prayer.",
        "As this advice ye practice or neglect.",
        "In malice to this good knight's wife, I practiced Ubaldo and Ricardo to corrupt her.",
        "In church they are taught to love God; after church they are practiced to love their neighbor.",
        "They shall practice how to live secure.",
        "Practice first over yourself to reign.",
        "He will practice against thee by poison.",
        "[I am] little inclined to practice on others, and as little that others should practice on me."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. praktike, practique, F. pratique, formerly also, practique, LL. practica, fr. Gr. Practical, and cf. Pratique, Pretty.]"
}