{
    "word": "Present",
    "definitions": [
        "Being at hand, within reach or call, within certain contemplated limits; -- opposed to absent.",
        "Now existing, or in process; begun but not ended; now in view, or under consideration; being at this time; not past or future; as, the present session of Congress; the present state of affairs; the present instance.",
        "Not delayed; immediate; instant; coincident.",
        "Ready; quick in emergency; as a present wit.",
        "Favorably attentive; propitious.",
        "Present time; the time being; time in progress now, or at the moment contemplated; as, at this present.",
        "Present letters or instrument, as a deed of conveyance, a lease, letter of attorney, or other writing; as in the phrase, presents,praesentes; [1913 Webster]",
        "A present tense, or the form of the verb denoting the present tense.",
        "To bring or introduce into the presence of some one, especially of a superior; to introduce formally; to offer for acquaintance; as, to present an envoy to the king; (with the reciprocal pronoun) to come into the presence of a superior.",
        "To exhibit or offer to view or notice; to lay before one's perception or cognizance; to set forth; to present a fine appearance.",
        "To pass over, esp. in a ceremonious manner; to give in charge or possession; to deliver; to make over.",
        "To make a gift of; to bestow; to give, generally in a formal or ceremonious manner; to grant; to confer.",
        "Hence: To endow; to bestow a gift upon; to favor, as with a donation; also, to court by gifts.",
        "To present; to personate.",
        "To nominate to an ecclesiastical benefice; to offer to the bishop or ordinary as a candidate for institution.",
        "To nominate for support at a public school or other institution .",
        "To lay before a public body, or an official, for consideration, as before a legislature, a court of judicature, a corporation, etc.; as, to present a memorial, petition, remonstrance, or indictment.",
        "To lay before a court as an object of inquiry; to give notice officially of, as a crime of offence; to find or represent judicially; as, a grand jury present certain offenses or nuisances, or whatever they think to be public injuries.",
        "To bring an indictment against .",
        "To aim, point, or direct, as a weapon; as, to present a pistol or the point of a sword to the breast of another.",
        "To appear at the mouth of the uterus so as to be perceptible to the finger in vaginal examination; -- said of a part of an infant during labor.",
        "Anything presented or given; a gift; a donative; as, a Christmas present.",
        "The position of a soldier in presenting arms; as, to stand at present."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "These things have I spoken unto you, being yet present with you.",
        "I'll bring thee to the present business",
        "An ambassador . . . desires a present audience.",
        "To find a god so present to my prayer.",
        "Past and present, wound in one.",
        "Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the lord.",
        "Lectorides's memory is ever . . . presenting him with the thoughts of other persons.",
        "So ladies in romance assist their knight, Present the spear, and arm him for the fight.",
        "My last, least offering, I present thee now.",
        "Octavia presented the poet for him admirable elegy on her son Marcellus.",
        "The patron of a church may present his clerk to a parsonage or vicarage; that is, may offer him to the bishop of the diocese to be instituted."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. pr, L. praesens,-entis, that is before one, in sight or at hand, p. p. of praeesse to be before; prae before + esse to be. See Essence.]"
}