{
    "word": "Proportion",
    "definitions": [
        "The relation or adaptation of one portion to another, or to the whole, as respect magnitude, quantity, or degree; comparative relation; ratio; as, the proportion of the parts of a building, or of the body.",
        "Harmonic relation between parts, or between different things of the same kind; symmetrical arrangement or adjustment; symmetry; as, to be out of proportion.",
        "The portion one receives when a whole is distributed by a rule or principle; equal or proper share; lot.",
        "A part considered comparatively; a share.",
        "The equality or similarity of ratios, especially of geometrical ratios; or a relation among quantities such that the quotient of the first divided by the second is equal to that of the third divided by the fourth; -- called also geometrical proportion, in distinction from arithmetical proportion, or that in which the difference of the first and second is equal to the difference of the third and fourth.",
        "The rule of three, in arithmetic, in which the three given terms, together with the one sought, are proportional.",
        "To adjust in a suitable proportion, as one thing or one part to another; as, to proportion the size of a building to its height; to proportion our expenditures to our income.",
        "To form with symmetry or suitableness, as the parts of the body.",
        "To divide into equal or just shares; to apportion."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The image of Christ, made after his own proportion.",
        "Formed in the best proportions of her sex.",
        "Documents are authentic and facts are true precisely in proportion to the support which they afford to his theory.",
        "Let the women . . . do the same things in their proportions and capacities.",
        "In the loss of an object we do not proportion our grief to the real value . . . but to the value our fancies set upon it.",
        "Nature had proportioned her without any fault."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F., fr. L. proportio; pro before + portio part or share. See Portion.]"
}