{
    "word": "Purchase",
    "definitions": [
        "To pursue and obtain; to acquire by seeking; to gain, obtain, or acquire.",
        "To obtain by paying money or its equivalent; to buy for a price; as, to purchase land, or a house.",
        "To obtain by any outlay, as of labor, danger, or sacrifice, etc.; as, to purchase favor with flattery.",
        "To expiate by a fine or forfeit.",
        "To acquire by any means except descent or inheritance.",
        "To buy for a price.",
        "To apply to (anything) a device for obtaining a mechanical advantage; to get a purchase upon, or apply a purchase to; as, to purchase a cannon.",
        "To put forth effort to obtain anything; to strive; to exert one's self.",
        "To acquire wealth or property.",
        "The act of seeking, getting, or obtaining anything.",
        "The act of seeking and acquiring property.",
        "The acquisition of title to, or properly in, anything for a price; buying for money or its equivalent.",
        "That which is obtained, got, or acquired, in any manner, honestly or dishonestly; property; possession; acquisition.",
        "That which is obtained for a price in money or its equivalent.",
        "Any mechanical hold, or advantage, applied to the raising or removing of heavy bodies, as by a lever, a tackle, capstan, and the like; also, the apparatus, tackle, or device by which the advantage is gained.",
        "Acquisition of lands or tenements by other means than descent or inheritance, namely, by one's own act or agreement."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "That loves the thing he can not purchase.",
        "Your accent is Something finer than you could purchase in so removed a dwelling.",
        "His faults . . . hereditary Rather than purchased.",
        "The field which Abraham purchased of the sons of Heth.",
        "One poor retiring minute . . . Would purchase thee a thousand thousand friends.",
        "A world who would not purchase with a bruise?",
        "Not tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses.",
        "Duke John of Brabant purchased greatly that the Earl of Flanders should have his daughter in marriage.",
        "Sure our lawyers Would not purchase half so fast.",
        "I'll . . . get meat to have thee, Or lose my life in the purchase.",
        "It is foolish to lay out money in the purchase of repentance.",
        "We met with little purchase upon this coast, except two small vessels of Golconda.",
        "A beauty-waning and distressed widow . . . Made prize and purchase of his lustful eye.",
        "A politician, to do great things, looks for a power -- what our workmen call a purchase."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. purchasen, porchacen, OF. porchacier, purchacier, to pursue, to seek eagerly, F. pourchasser; OF. pour, por, pur, for (L. pro) + chacier to pursue, to chase. See Chase.]"
}