{
    "word": "Quarter",
    "definitions": [
        "A division of a town, city, or county; a particular district; a locality; as, the Latin quarter in Paris.",
        "A small upright timber post, used in partitions; -- in the United States more commonly called stud.",
        "The fourth part of the distance from one point of the compass to another, being the fourth part of 11quarter point.",
        "Proper station; specific place; assigned position; special location.",
        "A station at which officers and men are posted in battle; -- usually in the plural.",
        "Place of lodging or temporary residence; shelter; entertainment; -- usually in the plural.",
        "A station or encampment occupied by troops; a place of lodging for soldiers or officers; as, winter quarters.",
        "Treatment shown by an enemy; mercy; especially, the act of sparing the life a conquered enemy; a refraining from pushing one's advantage to extremes.",
        "Friendship; amity; concord.",
        "To divide; to separate into parts or regions.",
        "To furnish with shelter or entertainment; to supply with the means of living for a time; especially, to furnish shelter to; as, to quarter soldiers.",
        "To furnish as a portion; to allot.",
        "To arrange (different coats of arms) upon one escutcheon, as when a man inherits from both father and mother the right to bear arms.",
        "To drive a carriage so as to prevent the wheels from going into the ruts, or so that a rut shall be between the wheels."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Scouts each coast light-armed scour, Each quarter, to descry the distant foe.",
        "Swift to their several quarters hasted then The cumbrous elements.",
        "The banter turned as to what quarters each would find.",
        "He magnified his own clemency, now they were at his mercy, to offer them quarter for their lives.",
        "Cocks and lambs . . . at the mercy of cats and wolves . . . must never expect better quarter.",
        "In quarter, and in terms like bride and groom.",
        "I knew two that were competitors for the secretary's place, . . . and yet kept good quarter between themselves.",
        "Then sailors quartered heaven.",
        "They mean this night in Sardis to be quartered.",
        "This isle . . . He quarters to his blue-haired deities.",
        "Every creature that met us would rely on us for quartering."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. cartayer.]"
}