{
    "word": "Rack",
    "definitions": [
        "The neck and spine of a fore quarter of veal or mutton.",
        "A wreck; destruction.",
        "To fly, as vapor or broken clouds.",
        "To amble fast, causing a rocking or swaying motion of the body; to pace; -- said of a horse.",
        "A fast amble.",
        "To draw off from the lees or sediment, as wine.",
        "An instrument or frame used for stretching, extending, retaining, or displaying, something.",
        "An engine of torture, consisting of a large frame, upon which the body was gradually stretched until, sometimes, the joints were dislocated; -- formerly used judicially for extorting confessions from criminals or suspected persons.",
        "An instrument for bending a bow.",
        "A grate on which bacon is laid.",
        "A frame or device of various construction for holding, and preventing the waste of, hay, grain, etc., supplied to beasts.",
        "A frame on which articles are deposited for keeping or arranged for display; as, a clothes rack; a bottle rack, etc.",
        "A piece or frame of wood, having several sheaves, through which the running rigging passes; -- called also rack block. Also, a frame to hold shot.",
        "A frame or table on which ores are separated or washed.",
        "A frame fitted to a wagon for carrying hay, straw, or grain on the stalk, or other bulky loads.",
        "A distaff.",
        "A bar with teeth on its face, or edge, to work with those of a wheel, pinion, or worm, which is to drive it or be driven by it.",
        "That which is extorted; exaction.",
        "To torment; to torture; to affect with extreme pain or anguish.",
        "To stretch or strain, in a figurative sense; hence, to harass, or oppress by extortion.",
        "To wash on a rack, as metals or ore.",
        "To bind together, as two ropes, with cross turns of yarn, marline, etc."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The winds in the upper region, which move the clouds above, which we call the rack, . . . pass without noise.",
        "And the night rack came rolling up.",
        "It is in common practice to draw wine or beer from the lees (which we call racking), whereby it will clarify much the sooner.",
        "During the troubles of the fifteenth century, a rack was introduced into the Tower, and was occasionally used under the plea of political necessity.",
        "A fit of the stone puts a king to the rack, and makes him as miserable as it does the meanest subject.",
        "He was racked and miserably tormented.",
        "Vaunting aloud but racked with deep despair.",
        "The landlords there shamefully rack their tenants.",
        "They [landlords] rack their rents an ace too high.",
        "Grant that I may never rack a Scripture simile beyond the true intent thereof.",
        "Try what my credit can in Venice do; That shall be racked even to the uttermost."
    ],
    "etymology": "[AS. hracca neck, hinder part of the head; cf. AS. hraca throat, G. rachen throat, E. retch.]"
}