{
    "word": "Raffish",
    "definitions": [
        "Mildly disreputable; disregarding conventional morality; charmingly dissolute{3} or nonconformist.",
        "Dissolute; rakish.",
        "Vulgarly gaudy; cheap and tawdry; as, a tendency toward gaudy jewelry, bright colors and generally raffish dress.",
        "Appealing to or frequented by dissolute or disreputable people; as, a raffish night club."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "A sad, raffish, disreputable character.",
        "Tales of his [Ted Kennedy's] drinking and raffish behavior have become part of his public persona, often lumped under a vaster damnation known as Orrin Hatch, the conservative Utah Republican who is also a Mormon, tells this story with what he describes as Hatch took a call from Frank Madsen, a former aide who had moved to Boston to supervise 200 young Mormon missionaries. Would Hatch come speak to them? Would he bring Kennedy? Would he ask Kennedy to reserve Faneuil Hall for the event? With some misgivings, Hatch agreed to try. Shortly before midnight, he found Kennedy and Chris Dodd in the Capitol. Neither was feeling any pain. Hatch eventually made his request. Kennedy assented. Hatch returned to his office, typed out the agreement and sent it to Kennedy's office. The next day, Hatch spied Kennedy reading the memo. Rick Atkinson, Washington Post, Sept. 29, 1990 [PJC]",
        "Of all such places, Santa Fe may well be the least raffish. At least in the off-season, it's a town that goes to bed early, showing all the prudent reserve of a city of bankers and claims adjusters. In the historic center, a visitor searches in vain for tawdry traces of the hard-drinking, wild-womanizing, heavy-gambling cowboy town this once must have been.",
        "Over the years, it [Macau] has maintained a downright raffish atmosphere, complete with warring gangsters.",
        "A lonely orphan, Lilli, lands a job with a raffish and run-down carnival. The wide-eyed and innocent orphan is mesmerized by its gritty, tawdry glamour."
    ],
    "etymology": null
}