{
    "word": "Regard",
    "definitions": [
        "To keep in view; to behold; to look at; to view; to gaze upon.",
        "Hence, to look or front toward; to face.",
        "To look closely at; to observe attentively; to pay attention to; to notice or remark particularly.",
        "To look upon, as in a certain relation; to hold as an popinion; to consider; as, to regard abstinence from wine as a duty; to regard another as a friend or enemy.",
        "To consider and treat; to have a certain feeling toward; as, to regard one with favor or dislike.",
        "To pay respect to; to treat as something of peculiar value, sanctity, or the like; to care for; to esteem.",
        "To take into consideration; to take account of, as a fact or condition.",
        "To have relation to, as bearing upon; to respect; to relate to; to touch; as, an argument does not regard the question; -- often used impersonally; as, I agree with you as regards this or that.",
        "To look attentively; to consider; to notice.",
        "A look; aspect directed to another; view; gaze.",
        "Attention of the mind with a feeling of interest; observation; heed; notice.",
        "That view of the mind which springs from perception of value, estimable qualities, or anything that excites admiration; respect; esteem; reverence; affection; as, to have a high regard for a person; -- often in the plural.",
        "State of being regarded, whether favorably or otherwise; estimation; repute; note; account.",
        "Consideration; thought; reflection; heed.",
        "Matter for consideration; account; condition.",
        "Respect; relation; reference.",
        "Object of sight; scene; view; aspect.",
        "Supervision; inspection."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Your niece regards me with an eye of favor.",
        "It is peninsula which regardeth the mainland.",
        "That exceedingly beatiful seat, on the assregarding the river.",
        "If much you note him, You offened him; . . . feed, and regard him not.",
        "His associates seem to have regarded him with kindness.",
        "He that regardeth thae day, regardeth it into the LOrd.",
        "Here's Beaufort, that regards nor God nor king.",
        "But her, with stern regard, he thus repelled.",
        "Full many a lady I have eyed with best regard.",
        "He has rendered himself worthy of their most favorable regards.",
        "Save the long-sought regards of woman, nothing is sweeter than those marks of childish preference.",
        "A man of meanest regard amongst them, neither having wealth or power.",
        "Sad pause and deep regard become the sage.",
        "Persuade them to pursue and persevere in virtue, with regard to themselves; in justice and goodness with regard to their neighbors; and piefy toward God.",
        "Change was thought necessary in regard of the injury the church did receive by a number of things then in use.",
        "In regard of its security, it had a great advantage over the bandboxes.",
        "Throw out our eyes for brave Othello, Even till we make the main and the aerial blue An indistinct regard."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. regarder; pref. re- re + garder to guard, heed, keep. See Guard, and cf. Reward.]"
}