{
    "word": "Religion",
    "definitions": [
        "Specifically, conformity in faith and life to the precepts inculcated in the Bible, respecting the conduct of life and duty toward God and man; the Christian faith and practice.",
        "A monastic or religious order subject to a regulated mode of life; the religious state; as, to enter religion.",
        "Strictness of fidelity in conforming to any practice, as if it were an enjoined rule of conduct."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "An orderly life so far as others are able to observe us is now and then produced by prudential motives or by dint of habit; but without seriousness there can be no religious principle at the bottom, no course of conduct from religious motives; in a word, there can be no religion.",
        "Religion [was] not, as too often now, used as equivalent for godliness; but . . . it expressed the outer form and embodiment which the inward spirit of a true or a false devotion assumed.",
        "Religions, by which are meant the modes of divine worship proper to different tribes, nations, or communities, and based on the belief held in common by the members of them severally. . . . There is no living religion without something like a doctrine. On the other hand, a doctrine, however elaborate, does not constitute a religion.",
        "Religion . . . means the conscious relation between man and God, and the expression of that relation in human conduct.",
        "After the most straitest sect of our religion I lived a Pharisee.",
        "The image of a brute, adorned With gay religions full of pomp and gold.",
        "Let us with caution indulge the supposition that morality can be maintained without religion.",
        "Religion will attend you . . . as a pleasant and useful companion in every proper place, and every temperate occupation of life.",
        "A good man was there of religion.",
        "Those parts of pleading which in ancient times might perhaps be material, but at this time are become only mere styles and forms, are still continued with much religion."
    ],
    "etymology": null
}