{
    "word": "Rest",
    "definitions": [
        "A state of quiet or repose; a cessation from motion or labor; tranquillity; as, rest from mental exertion; rest of body or mind.",
        "Hence, freedom from everything which wearies or disturbs; peace; security.",
        "Sleep; slumber; hence, poetically, death.",
        "That on which anything rests or leans for support; as, a rest in a lathe, for supporting the cutting tool or steadying the work.",
        "A projection from the right side of the cuirass, serving to support the lance.",
        "A place where one may rest, either temporarily, as in an inn, or permanently, as, in an abode.",
        "A short pause in reading verse; a caesura.",
        "The striking of a balance at regular intervals in a running account.",
        "A set or game at tennis.",
        "Silence in music or in one of its parts; the name of the character that stands for such silence. They are named as notes are, whole, half, quarter,etc.",
        "To be free from whatever wearies or disturbs; to be quiet or still.",
        "To lie; to repose; to recline; to lan; as, to rest on a couch.",
        "To stand firm; to be fixed; to be supported; as, a column rests on its pedestal.",
        "To sleep; to slumber; hence, poetically, to be dead.",
        "To lean in confidence; to trust; to rely; to repose without anxiety; as, to rest on a man's promise.",
        "To be satisfied; to acquiesce.",
        "To lay or place at rest; to quiet.",
        "To place, as on a support; to cause to lean.",
        "That which is left, or which remains after the separation of a part, either in fact or in contemplation; remainder; residue.",
        "Those not included in a proposition or description; the remainder; others.",
        "A surplus held as a reserved fund by a bank to equalize its dividends, etc.; in the Bank of England, the balance of assets above liabilities.",
        "To be left; to remain; to continue to be."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Sleep give thee all his rest!",
        "And the land had rest fourscore years.",
        "How sleep the brave who sink to rest, By all their country's wishes blest.",
        "He made narrowed rests round about, that the beams should not be fastened in the walls of the house.",
        "Their visors closed, their lances in the rest.",
        "In dust our final rest, and native home.",
        "Ye are not as yet come to the rest and to the inheritance which the Lord your God giveth you.",
        "God . . . rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made.",
        "Six days thou shalt do thy work, and on the seventh day thou shalt rest.",
        "There rest, if any rest can harbor there.",
        "Fancy . . . then retries Into her private cell when Nature rests.",
        "On him I rested, after long debate, And not without considering, fixed my fate.",
        "To rest in Heaven's determination.",
        "Your piety has paid All needful rites, to rest my wandering shade.",
        "Her weary head upon your bosom rest.",
        "Religion gives part of its reward in hand, the present comfort of having done our duty, and, for the rest, it offers us the best security that Heaven can give.",
        "Armed like the rest, the Trojan prince appears.",
        "The affairs of men rest still uncertain."
    ],
    "etymology": "[AS. rest, r, rest; akin to D. rust, G. rast. OHG. rasta, Dan. & Sw. rast rest, repose, Icel. r the distance between two resting places, a mole, Goth. rasta a mile, also to Goth. razn house, Icel. rann, and perhaps to G. ruhe rest, repose, AS. r, Gr. 'erwh`. Cf. Ransack.]"
}