{
    "word": "Reverse",
    "definitions": [
        "Turned backward; having a contrary or opposite direction; hence; opposite or contrary in kind; as, the reverse order or method.",
        "Turned upside down; greatly disturbed.",
        "Reversed; as, a reverse shell.",
        "That which is directly opposite or contrary to something else; a contrary; an opposite.",
        "The act of reversing; complete change; reversal; hence, total change in circumstances or character; especially, a change from better to worse; misfortune; a check or defeat; as, the enemy met with a reverse.",
        "The back side; as, the reverse of a drum or trench; the reverse of a medal or coin, that is, the side opposite to the obverse. See Obverse.",
        "A thrust in fencing made with a backward turn of the hand; a backhanded stroke.",
        "A turn or fold made in bandaging, by which the direction of the bandage is changed.",
        "To turn back; to cause to face in a contrary direction; to cause to depart.",
        "To cause to return; to recall.",
        "To change totally; to alter to the opposite.",
        "To turn upside down; to invert.",
        "Hence, to overthrow; to subvert.",
        "To overthrow by a contrary decision; to make void; to under or annual for error; as, to reverse a judgment, sentence, or decree.",
        "To return; to revert.",
        "To become or be reversed."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "He found the sea diverse With many a windy storm reverse.",
        "He did so with the reverse of the lance.",
        "And then mistook reverse of wrong for right.",
        "To make everything the reverse of what they have seen, is quite as easy as to destroy.",
        "The strange reverse of fate you see; I pitied you, now you may pity me.",
        "By a reverse of fortune, Stephen becomes rich.",
        "And that old dame said many an idle verse, Out of her daughter's heart fond fancies to reverse.",
        "And to his fresh remembrance did reverse The ugly view of his deformed crimes.",
        "Reverse the doom of death.",
        "She reversed the conduct of the celebrated vicar of Bray.",
        "A pyramid reversed may stand upon his point if balanced by admirable skill.",
        "These can divide, and these reverse, the state.",
        "Custom . . . reverses even the distinctions of good and evil."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. revers, OF. revers, L. reversus, p. p. of revertere. See Revert.]"
}