{
    "word": "Romance",
    "definitions": [
        "A species of fictitious writing, originally composed in meter in the Romance dialects, and afterward in prose, such as the tales of the court of Arthur, and of Amadis of Gaul; hence, any fictitious and wonderful tale; a sort of novel, especially one which treats of surprising adventures usually befalling a hero or a heroine; a tale of extravagant adventures, of love, and the like.",
        "An adventure, or series of extraordinary events, resembling those narrated in romances; as, his courtship, or his life, was a romance.",
        "A dreamy, imaginative habit of mind; a disposition to ignore what is real; as, a girl full of romance.",
        "The languages, or rather the several dialects, which were originally forms of popular or vulgar Latin, and have now developed into Italian. Spanish, French, etc. (called the Romanic languages).",
        "A short lyric tale set to music; a song or short instrumental piece in ballad style; a romanza.",
        "a love affair, esp. one in which the lovers display their deep affection openly, by romantic gestures.",
        "Of or pertaining to the language or dialects known as Romance.",
        "To write or tell romances; to indulge in extravagant stories."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Upon these three columns -- chivalry, gallantry, and religion -- repose the fictions of the Middle Ages, especially those known as romances. These, such as we now know them, and such as display the characteristics above mentioned, were originally metrical, and chiefly written by nations of the north of France.",
        "A very brave officer, but apt to romance."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. romance, romant, romaunt, OF. romanz, romans, romant, roman, F. roman, romance, fr. LL. Romanice in the Roman language, in the vulgar tongue, i. e., in the vulgar language which sprang from Latin, the language of the Romans, and hence applied to fictitious compositions written in this vulgar tongue; fr. L. Romanicus Roman, fr. Romanus. See Roman, and cf. Romanic, Romaunt, Romansch, Romanza.]"
}