{
    "word": "Salt",
    "definitions": [
        "The chloride of sodium, a substance used for seasoning food, for the preservation of meat, etc. It is found native in the earth, and is also produced, by evaporation and crystallization, from sea water and other water impregnated with saline particles.",
        "Hence, flavor; taste; savor; smack; seasoning.",
        "Hence, also, piquancy; wit; sense; as, Attic salt.",
        "A dish for salt at table; a saltcellar.",
        "A sailor; -- usually qualified by old.",
        "The neutral compound formed by the union of an acid and a base; thus, sulphuric acid and iron form the salt sulphate of iron or green vitriol.",
        "Fig.: That which preserves from corruption or error; that which purifies; a corrective; an antiseptic; also, an allowance or deduction; as, his statements must be taken with a grain of salt.",
        "Any mineral salt used as an aperient or cathartic, especially Epsom salts, Rochelle salt, or Glauber's salt.",
        "Marshes flooded by the tide.",
        "Of or relating to salt; abounding in, or containing, salt; prepared or preserved with, or tasting of, salt; salted; as, salt beef; salt water.",
        "Overflowed with, or growing in, salt water; as, a salt marsh; salt grass.",
        "Fig.: Bitter; sharp; pungent.",
        "Fig.: Salacious; lecherous; lustful.",
        "To sprinkle, impregnate, or season with salt; to preserve with salt or in brine; to supply with salt; as, to salt fish, beef, or pork; to salt cattle.",
        "To fill with salt between the timbers and planks, as a ship, for the preservation of the timber.",
        "To deposit salt as a saline solution; as, the brine begins to salt.",
        "The act of leaping or jumping; a leap."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Though we are justices and doctors and churchmen . . . we have some salt of our youth in us.",
        "I out and bought some things; among others, a dozen of silver salts.",
        "Around the door are generally to be seen, laughing and gossiping, clusters of old salts.",
        "Ye are the salt of the earth.",
        "His fashion is not to take knowledge of him that is beneath him in clothes. He never drinks below the salt.",
        "I have a salt and sorry rheum offends me.",
        "Mine eyes are full of tears, I can not see; And yet salt water blinds them not so much But they can see a sort of traitors here."
    ],
    "etymology": "[AS. sealt; akin to OS. & OFries. salt, D. zout, G. salz, Icel., Sw., & Dan. salt, L. sal, Gr. sole, Ir. & Gael. salann, W. halen, of unknown origin. Cf. Sal, Salad, Salary, Saline, Sauce, Sausage.]"
}