{
    "word": "Scratch",
    "definitions": [
        "To rub and tear or mark the surface of with something sharp or ragged; to scrape, roughen, or wound slightly by drawing something pointed or rough across, as the claws, the nails, a pin, or the like.",
        "To write or draw hastily or awkwardly.",
        "To cancel by drawing one or more lines through, as the name of a candidate upon a ballot, or of a horse in a list; hence, to erase; to efface; -- often with out.",
        "To dig or excavate with the claws; as, some animals scratch holes, in which they burrow.",
        "To use the claws or nails in tearing or in digging; to make scratches.",
        "To score, not by skillful play but by some fortunate chance of the game.",
        "A break in the surface of a thing made by scratching, or by rubbing with anything pointed or rough; a slight wound, mark, furrow, or incision.",
        "A line across the prize ring; up to which boxers are brought when they join fight; hence, test, trial, or proof of courage; as, to bring to the scratch; to come up to the scratch.",
        "Minute, but tender and troublesome, excoriations, covered with scabs, upon the heels of horses which have been used where it is very wet or muddy.",
        "A kind of wig covering only a portion of the head.",
        "A shot which scores by chance and not as intended by the player; a fluke.",
        "a shot which results in a penalty, such as dropping the cue ball in a pocket without hitting another ball.",
        "In various sports, the line from which the start is made, except in the case of contestants receiving a distance handicap.",
        "Made, done, or happening by chance; arranged with little or no preparation; determined by circumstances; haphazard; as, a scratch team; a scratch crew for a boat race; a scratch shot in billiards."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Small sand-colored stones, so hard as to scratch glass.",
        "Be mindful, when invention fails, To scratch your head, and bite your nails.",
        "Dull, tame things, . . . that will neither bite nor scratch.",
        "The coarse file . . . makes deep scratches in the work.",
        "These nails with scratches deform my breast.",
        "God forbid a shallow scratch should drive The prince of Wales from such a field as this."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. cracchen (perhaps influenced by OE. scratten to scratch); cf. OHG. chrazz, G. kratzen, OD. kratsen, kretsen, D. krassen, Sw. kratsa to scrape, kratta to rake, to scratch, Dan. kradse to scratch, to scrape, Icel. krota to engrave. Cf. Grate to rub.]"
}