{
    "word": "Seal",
    "definitions": [
        "An engraved or inscribed stamp, used for marking an impression in wax or other soft substance, to be attached to a document, or otherwise used by way of authentication or security.",
        "Wax, wafer, or other tenacious substance, set to an instrument, and impressed or stamped with a seal; as, to give a deed under hand and seal.",
        "That which seals or fastens; esp., the wax or wafer placed on a letter or other closed paper, etc., to fasten it.",
        "That which confirms, ratifies, or makes stable; that which authenticates; that which secures; assurance.",
        "An arrangement for preventing the entrance or return of gas or air into a pipe, by which the open end of the pipe dips beneath the surface of water or other liquid, or a deep bend or sag in the pipe is filled with the liquid; a draintrap.",
        "To set or affix a seal to; hence, to authenticate; to confirm; to ratify; to establish; as, to seal a deed.",
        "To mark with a stamp, as an evidence of standard exactness, legal size, or merchantable quality; as, to seal weights and measures; to seal silverware.",
        "To fasten with a seal; to attach together with a wafer, wax, or other substance causing adhesion; as, to seal a letter.",
        "Hence, to shut close; to keep close; to make fast; to keep secure or secret.",
        "To fix, as a piece of iron in a wall, with cement, plaster, or the like.",
        "To close by means of a seal; as, to seal a drainpipe with water. See 2d Seal, 5.",
        "Among the Mormons, to confirm or set apart as a second or additional wife.",
        "To affix one's seal, or a seal."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Till thou canst rail the seal from off my bond Thou but offend'st thy lungs to speak so loud.",
        "Like a red seal is the setting sun On the good and the evil men have done.",
        "And with my hand I seal my true heart's love.",
        "Seal up your lips, and give no words but Shak. [1913 Webster]",
        "If a man once married desires a second helpmate . . . she is sealed to him under the solemn sanction of the church.",
        "I will seal unto this bond."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. seel, OF. seel, F. sceau, fr. L. sigillum a little figure or image, a seal, dim. of signum a mark, sign, figure, or image. See Sign, n., and cf. Sigil.]"
}