{
    "word": "Second",
    "definitions": [
        "Immediately following the first; next to the first in order of place or time; hence, occurring again; another; other.",
        "Next to the first in value, power, excellence, dignity, or rank; secondary; subordinate; inferior.",
        "Being of the same kind as another that has preceded; another, like a prototype; as, a second Cato; a second Troy; a second deluge.",
        "One who, or that which, follows, or comes after; one next and inferior in place, time, rank, importance, excellence, or power.",
        "One who follows or attends another for his support and aid; a backer; an assistant; specifically, one who acts as another's aid in a duel.",
        "Aid; assistance; help.",
        "An article of merchandise of a grade inferior to the best; esp., a coarse or inferior kind of flour.",
        "The sixtieth part of a minute of time or of a minute of space, that is, the second regular subdivision of the degree; as, sound moves about 1,140 English feet in a second; five minutes and ten seconds north of this place.",
        "In the duodecimal system of mensuration, the twelfth part of an inch or prime; a line. See Inch, and Prime, n., 8.",
        "The interval between any tone and the tone which is represented on the degree of the staff next above it.",
        "The second part in a concerted piece; -- often popularly applied to the alto.",
        "A motion in support of another motion which has been moved in a deliberative body; a motion without a second dies without discussion.",
        "To follow in the next place; to succeed; to alternate.",
        "To follow or attend for the purpose of assisting; to support; to back; to act as the second of; to assist; to forward; to encourage.",
        "to support, as a motion{6} or proposal, by adding one's voice to that of the mover or proposer."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "And he slept and dreamed the second time.",
        "May the day when we become the second people upon earth . . . be the day of our utter extirpation.",
        "A Daniel, still say I, a second Daniel!",
        "On second thoughts, gentlemen, I don't wish you had known him.",
        "Man An angel's second, nor his second long.",
        "Being sure enough of seconds after the first onset.",
        "Give second, and my love Is everlasting thine.",
        "In the method of nature, a low valley is immediately seconded with an ambitious hill.",
        "Sin is seconded with sin.",
        "We have supplies to second our attempt.",
        "In human works though labored on with pain, A thousand movements scarce one purpose gain; In God's, one single can its end produce, Yet serves to second too some other use."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F., fr. L. secundus second, properly, following, fr. sequi to follow. See Sue to follow, and cf. Secund.]"
}