{
    "word": "Section",
    "definitions": [
        "The act of cutting, or separation by cutting; as, the section of bodies.",
        "A part separated from something; a division; a portion; a slice.",
        "A distinct part or portion of a book or writing; a subdivision of a chapter; the division of a law or other writing; a paragraph; an article; hence, the character [1913 Webster]",
        "A distinct part of a country or people, community, class, or the like; a part of a territory separated by geographical lines, or of a people considered as distinct.",
        "One of the portions, of one square mile each, into which the public lands of the United States are divided; one thirty-sixth part of a township. These sections are subdivided into quarter sections for sale under the homestead and preemption laws.",
        "The figure made up of all the points common to a superficies and a solid which meet, or to two superficies which meet, or to two lines which meet. In the first case the section is a superficies, in the second a line, and in the third a point.",
        "A division of a genus; a group of species separated by some distinction from others of the same genus; -- often indicated by the sign [1913 Webster]",
        "A part of a musical period, composed of one or more phrases. See Phrase.",
        "The description or representation of anything as it would appear if cut through by any intersecting plane; depiction of what is beyond a plane passing through, or supposed to pass through, an object, as a building, a machine, a succession of strata; profile."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "It is hardly possible to give a distinct view of his several arguments in distinct sections.",
        "The extreme section of one class consists of bigoted dotards, the extreme section of the other consists of shallow and reckless empirics."
    ],
    "etymology": "[L. sectio, fr. secare, sectum, to cut; akin to E. saw a cutting instrument: cf. F. section. See Saw, and cf. Scion, Dissect, Insect, Secant, Segment.]"
}