{
    "word": "See",
    "definitions": [
        "A seat; a site; a place where sovereign power is exercised.",
        "The seat of episcopal power; a diocese; the jurisdiction of a bishop; as, the see of New York.",
        "The seat of an archbishop; a province or jurisdiction of an archbishop; as, an archiepiscopal see.",
        "The seat, place, or office of the pope, or Roman pontiff; as, the papal see.",
        "The pope or his court at Rome; as, to appeal to the see of Rome.",
        "To perceive by mental vision; to form an idea or conception of; to note with the mind; to observe; to discern; to distinguish; to understand; to comprehend; to ascertain.",
        "To follow with the eyes, or as with the eyes; to watch; to regard attentively; to look after.",
        "To have an interview with; especially, to make a call upon; to visit; as, to go to see a friend.",
        "To fall in with; to meet or associate with; to have intercourse or communication with; hence, to have knowledge or experience of; as, to see military service.",
        "To accompany in person; to escort; to wait upon; as, to see one home; to see one aboard the cars.",
        "In poker and similar games at cards, to meet (a bet), or to equal the bet of (a player), by staking the same sum.",
        "To have the power of sight, or of perceiving by the proper organs; to possess or employ the sense of vision; as, he sees distinctly.",
        "Figuratively: To have intellectual apprehension; to perceive; to know; to understand; to discern; -- often followed by a preposition, as through, or into.",
        "To be attentive; to take care; to give heed; -- generally with to; as, to see to the house."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Jove laughed on Venus from his sovereign see.",
        "I will now turn aside, and see this great sight.",
        "Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well with thy brethren.",
        "Jesus saw that he answered discreetly.",
        "Who's so gross That seeth not this palpable device?",
        "I had a mind to see him out, and therefore did not care for contradicting him.",
        "And Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death.",
        "Make us glad according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted us, and the years wherein we have seen evil.",
        "Verily, verily, I say unto you, if a man keep my saying, he shall never see death.",
        "Improvement in wisdom and prudence by seeing men.",
        "Whereas I was blind, now I see.",
        "For judgment I am come into this world, that they which see not might see; and that they which see might be made blind.",
        "Many sagacious persons will find us out, . . . and see through all our fine pretensions.",
        "See that ye fall not out by the way.",
        "Cassio's a proper man, let me see now, - To get his place."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. se, see, OF. se, sed, sied, fr. L. sedes a seat, or the kindred sedere to sit. See Sit, and cf. Siege.]"
}