{
    "word": "Sense",
    "definitions": [
        "A faculty, possessed by animals, of perceiving external objects by means of impressions made upon certain organs (sensory or sense organs) of the body, or of perceiving changes in the condition of the body; as, the senses of sight, smell, hearing, taste, and touch. See Muscular sense, under Muscular, and Temperature sense, under Temperature.",
        "Perception by the sensory organs of the body; sensation; sensibility; feeling.",
        "Perception through the intellect; apprehension; recognition; understanding; discernment; appreciation.",
        "Sound perception and reasoning; correct judgment; good mental capacity; understanding; also, that which is sound, true, or reasonable; rational meaning.",
        "That which is felt or is held as a sentiment, view, or opinion; judgment; notion; opinion.",
        "Meaning; import; signification; as, the true sense of words or phrases; the sense of a remark.",
        "Moral perception or appreciation.",
        "One of two opposite directions in which a line, surface, or volume, may be supposed to be described by the motion of a point, line, or surface.",
        "To perceive by the senses; to recognize."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Let fancy still my sense in Lethe steep.",
        "What surmounts the reach Of human sense I shall delineate.",
        "The traitor Sense recalls The soaring soul from rest.",
        "In a living creature, though never so great, the sense and the affects of any one part of the body instantly make a transcursion through the whole.",
        "This Basilius, having the quick sense of a lover.",
        "High disdain from sense of injured merit.",
        "He raves; his words are loose As heaps of sand, and scattering wide from sense.",
        "I speak my private but impartial sense With freedom.",
        "The municipal council of the city had ceased to speak the sense of the citizens.",
        "So they read in the book in the law of God distinctly, and gave the sense.",
        "I think 't was in another sense.",
        "Some are so hardened in wickedness as to have no sense of the most friendly offices.",
        "Is he sure that objects are not otherwise sensed by others than they are by him?"
    ],
    "etymology": "[L. sensus, from sentire, sensum, to perceive, to feel, from the same root as E. send; cf. OHG. sin sense, mind, sinnan to go, to journey, G. sinnen to meditate, to think: cf. F. sens. For the change of meaning cf. See, v. t. See Send, and cf. Assent, Consent, Scent, v. t., Sentence, Sentient.]"
}