{
    "word": "Service",
    "definitions": [
        "A name given to several trees and shrubs of the genus Pyrus, as Pyrus domestica and Pyrus torminalis of Europe, the various species of mountain ash or rowan tree, and the American shad bush (see Shad bush, under Shad). They have clusters of small, edible, applelike berries.",
        "The act of serving; the occupation of a servant; the performance of labor for the benefit of another, or at another's command; attendance of an inferior, hired helper, slave, etc., on a superior, employer, master, or the like; also, spiritual obedience and love.",
        "The deed of one who serves; labor performed for another; duty done or required; office.",
        "Office of devotion; official religious duty performed; religious rites appropriate to any event or ceremonial; as, a burial service.",
        "Hence, a musical composition for use in churches.",
        "Duty performed in, or appropriate to, any office or charge; official function; hence, specifically, military or naval duty; performance of the duties of a soldier.",
        "Useful office; advantage conferred; that which promotes interest or happiness; benefit; avail.",
        "Profession of respect; acknowledgment of duty owed.",
        "The act and manner of bringing food to the persons who eat it; order of dishes at table; also, a set or number of vessels ordinarily used at table; as, the service was tardy and awkward; a service of plate or glass.",
        "The act of bringing to notice, either actually or constructively, in such manner as is prescribed by law; as, the service of a subp.",
        "The materials used for serving a rope, etc., as spun yarn, small lines, etc.",
        "The act of serving the ball.",
        "Act of serving or covering. See Serve, v. t., 13."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Madam, I entreat true peace of you, Which I will purchase with my duteous service.",
        "God requires no man's service upon hard and unreasonable terms.",
        "I have served him from the hour of my nativity, . . . and have nothing at his hands for my service but blows.",
        "This poem was the last piece of service I did for my master, King Charles.",
        "To go on the forlorn hope is a service of peril; who will understake it if it be not also a service of honor?",
        "The outward service of ancient religion, the rites, ceremonies, and ceremonial vestments of the old law.",
        "When he cometh to experience of service abroad . . . ne maketh a worthy soldier.",
        "The stork's plea, when taken in a net, was the service she did in picking up venomous creatures.",
        "There was no extraordinary service seen on the board."
    ],
    "etymology": "[Properly, the tree which bears serve, OE. serves, pl., service berries, AS. syrfe service tree; akin to L. sorbus.]"
}