{
    "word": "Shaft",
    "definitions": [
        "The slender, smooth stem of an arrow; hence, an arrow.",
        "The long handle of a spear or similar weapon; hence, the weapon itself; (Fig.) anything regarded as a shaft to be thrown or darted; as, shafts of light.",
        "That which resembles in some degree the stem or handle of an arrow or a spear; a long, slender part, especially when cylindrical.",
        "The trunk, stem, or stalk of a plant.",
        "The stem or midrib of a feather.",
        "The pole, or tongue, of a vehicle; also, a thill.",
        "The part of a candlestick which supports its branches.",
        "The handle or helve of certain tools, instruments, etc., as a hammer, a whip, etc.",
        "A pole, especially a Maypole.",
        "The body of a column; the cylindrical pillar between the capital and base (see Illust. of Column). Also, the part of a chimney above the roof. Also, the spire of a steeple.",
        "A column, an obelisk, or other spire-shaped or columnar monument.",
        "A rod at the end of a heddle.",
        "A solid or hollow cylinder or bar, having one or more journals on which it rests and revolves, and intended to carry one or more wheels or other revolving parts and to transmit power or motion; as, the shaft of a steam engine.",
        "A humming bird (Thaumastura cora) having two of the tail feathers next to the middle ones very long in the male; -- called also cora humming bird.",
        "A well-like excavation in the earth, perpendicular or nearly so, made for reaching and raising ore, for raising water, etc.",
        "A long passage for the admission or outlet of air; an air shaft.",
        "The chamber of a blast furnace."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "His sleep, his meat, his drink, is him bereft, That lean he wax, and dry as is a shaft.",
        "A shaft hath three principal parts, the stele [stale], the feathers, and the head.",
        "And the thunder, Winged with red lightning and impetuous rage, Perhaps hath spent his shafts.",
        "Some kinds of literary pursuits . . . have been attacked with all the shafts of ridicule.",
        "Thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold . . . his shaft, and his branches, his bowls, his knops, and his flowers, shall be of the same.",
        "Bid time and nature gently spare The shaft we raise to thee."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. shaft, schaft, AS. sceaft; akin to D. schacht, OHG. scaft, G. schaft, Dan. & Sw. skaft handle, haft, Icel. skapt, and probably to L. scapus, Gr. Scape, Scepter, Shave.]"
}