{
    "word": "Shake",
    "definitions": [
        "obs. p. p. of Shake.",
        "To cause to move with quick or violent vibrations; to move rapidly one way and the other; to make to tremble or shiver; to agitate.",
        "Fig.: To move from firmness; to weaken the stability of; to cause to waver; to impair the resolution of.",
        "To give a tremulous tone to; to trill; as, to shake a note in music.",
        "To move or remove by agitating; to throw off by a jolting or vibrating motion; to rid one's self of; -- generally with an adverb, as off, out, etc.; as, to shake fruit down from a tree.",
        "To be agitated with a waving or vibratory motion; to tremble; to shiver; to quake; to totter.",
        "The act or result of shaking; a vacillating or wavering motion; a rapid motion one way and other; a trembling, quaking, or shivering; agitation.",
        "A fissure or crack in timber, caused by its being dried too suddenly.",
        "A fissure in rock or earth.",
        "A rapid alternation of a principal tone with another represented on the next degree of the staff above or below it; a trill.",
        "One of the staves of a hogshead or barrel taken apart.",
        "A shook of staves and headings.",
        "The redshank; -- so called from the nodding of its head while on the ground."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "As a fig tree casteth her untimely figs, when she is shaken of a mighty wind.",
        "Ascend my chariot; guide the rapid wheels That shake heaven's basis.",
        "When his doctrines grew too strong to be shook by his enemies, they persecuted his reputation.",
        "Thy equal fear that my firm faith and love Can by his fraud be shaken or seduced.",
        "Shake off the golden slumber of repose.",
        "'Tis our fast intent To shake all cares and business from our age.",
        "I could scarcely shake him out of my company.",
        "Under his burning wheels The steadfast empyrean shook throughout, All but the throne itself of God.",
        "What danger? Who 's that that shakes behind there?",
        "The great soldier's honor was composed Of thicker stuff, which could endure a shake.",
        "Our salutations were very hearty on both sides, consisting of many kind shakes of the hand."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. shaken, schaken, AS. scacan, sceacan; akin to Icel. & Sw. skaka, OS. skakan, to depart, to flee. Shock, v.]"
}