{
    "word": "Shed",
    "definitions": [
        "A covered structure for housing aircraft; a hangar.",
        "To separate; to divide.",
        "To part with; to throw off or give forth from one's self; to emit; to diffuse; to cause to emanate or flow; to pour forth or out; to spill; as, the sun sheds light; she shed tears; the clouds shed rain.",
        "To let fall; to throw off, as a natural covering of hair, feathers, shell; to cast; as, fowls shed their feathers; serpents shed their skins; trees shed leaves.",
        "To cause to flow off without penetrating; as, a tight roof, or covering of oiled cloth, sheeds water.",
        "To sprinkle; to intersperse; to cover.",
        "To divide, as the warp threads, so as to form a shed, or passageway, for the shuttle.",
        "To fall in drops; to pour.",
        "To let fall the parts, as seeds or fruit; to throw off a covering or envelope.",
        "A parting; a separation; a division.",
        "The act of shedding or spilling; -- used only in composition, as in bloodshed.",
        "That which parts, divides, or sheds; -- used in composition, as in watershed.",
        "The passageway between the threads of the warp through which the shuttle is thrown, having a sloping top and bottom made by raising and lowering the alternate threads."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The first Aletes born in lowly shed.",
        "Sheds of reeds which summer's heat repel.",
        "Did Romeo's hand shed Tybalt's blood?",
        "Twice seven consenting years have shed Their utmost bounty on thy head.",
        "Such a rain down from the welkin shadde.",
        "White oats are apt to shed most as they lie, and black as they stand.",
        "They say also that the manner of making the shed of newwedded wives' hair with the iron head of a javelin came up then likewise."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. scheden, sch, to pour, to part, AS. sc, sce, to pert, to separate; akin to OS. sk, OFries. skscheiden, OHG. sceidan, Goth. skaidan, and probably to Lith. sk I part, separate, L. scindere to cleave, to split, Gr. chid, and perch. also to L. caedere to cut. Chisel, Concise, Schism, Sheading, Sheath, Shide.]"
}