{
    "word": "Shift",
    "definitions": [
        "To change the place of; to move or remove from one place to another; as, to shift a burden from one shoulder to another; to shift the blame.",
        "To change the position of; to alter the bearings of; to turn; as, to shift the helm or sails.",
        "To exchange for another of the same class; to remove and to put some similar thing in its place; to change; as, to shift the clothes; to shift the scenes.",
        "To change the clothing of; -- used reflexively.",
        "To put off or out of the way by some expedient.",
        "To divide; to distribute.",
        "To make a change or changes; to change position; to move; to veer; to substitute one thing for another; -- used in the various senses of the transitive verb.",
        "To resort to expedients for accomplishing a purpose; to contrive; to manage.",
        "To practice indirect or evasive methods.",
        "To slip to one side of a ship, so as to destroy the equilibrum; -- said of ballast or cargo; as, the cargo shifted.",
        "The act of shifting.",
        "The act of putting one thing in the place of another, or of changing the place of a thing; change; substitution.",
        "Something frequently shifted; especially, a woman's under-garment; a chemise.",
        "The change of one set of workmen for another; hence, a spell, or turn, of work; also, a set of workmen who work in turn with other sets; as, a night shift.",
        "In building, the extent, or arrangement, of the overlapping of plank, brick, stones, etc., that are placed in courses so as to break joints.",
        "A breaking off and dislocation of a seam; a fault.",
        "A change of the position of the hand on the finger board, in playing the violin."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "To which God of his bounty would shift Crowns two of flowers well smelling.",
        "Hastily he schifte him[self].",
        "Pare saffron between the two St. Mary's days, Or set or go shift it that knowest the ways.",
        "Carrying the oar loose, [they] shift it hither and thither at pleasure.",
        "I would advise you to shift a shirt.",
        "As it were to ride day and night; and . . . not to have patience to shift me.",
        "Shift the scene for half an hour; Time and place are in thy power.",
        "Some this, some that, as that him liketh shift.",
        "The sixth age shifts Into the lean and slippered pantaloon.",
        "Here the Baillie shifted and fidgeted about in his seat.",
        "Men in distress will look to themselves, and leave their companions to shift as well as they can.",
        "All those schoolmen, though they were exceeding witty, yet better teach all their followers to shift, than to resolve by their distinctions.",
        "My going to Oxford was not merely for shift of air.",
        "I 'll find a thousand shifts to get away.",
        "Little souls on little shifts rely.",
        "[They] made a shift to keep their own in Ireland."
    ],
    "etymology": "[Cf. Icel. skipti. See Shift, v. t.]"
}