{
    "word": "Shoot",
    "definitions": [
        "An inclined plane, either artificial or natural, down which timber, coal, etc., are caused to slide; also, a narrow passage, either natural or artificial, in a stream, where the water rushes rapidly; esp., a channel, having a swift current, connecting the ends of a bend in the stream, so as to shorten the course.",
        "To let fly, or cause to be driven, with force, as an arrow or a bullet; -- followed by a word denoting the missile, as an object.",
        "To discharge, causing a missile to be driven forth; -- followed by a word denoting the weapon or instrument, as an object; -- often with off; as, to shoot a gun.",
        "To strike with anything shot; to hit with a missile; often, to kill or wound with a firearm; -- followed by a word denoting the person or thing hit, as an object.",
        "To send out or forth, especially with a rapid or sudden motion; to cast with the hand; to hurl; to discharge; to emit.",
        "To push or thrust forward; to project; to protrude; -- often with out; as, a plant shoots out a bud.",
        "To plane straight; to fit by planing.",
        "To pass rapidly through, over, or under; as, to shoot a rapid or a bridge; to shoot a sand bar.",
        "To variegate as if by sprinkling or intermingling; to color in spots or patches.",
        "To cause an engine or weapon to discharge a missile; -- said of a person or an agent; as, they shot at a target; he shoots better than he rides.",
        "To discharge a missile; -- said of an engine or instrument; as, the gun shoots well.",
        "To be shot or propelled forcibly; -- said of a missile; to be emitted or driven; to move or extend swiftly, as if propelled; as, a shooting star.",
        "To penetrate, as a missile; to dart with a piercing sensation; as, shooting pains.",
        "To feel a quick, darting pain; to throb in pain.",
        "To germinate; to bud; to sprout.",
        "To grow; to advance; as, to shoot up rapidly.",
        "To change form suddenly; especially, to solidify.",
        "To protrude; to jut; to project; to extend; as, the land shoots into a promontory.",
        "To move ahead by force of momentum, as a sailing vessel when the helm is put hard alee.",
        "The act of shooting; the discharge of a missile; a shot; as, the shoot of a shuttle.",
        "A young branch or growth.",
        "A rush of water; a rapid.",
        "A vein of ore running in the same general direction as the lode.",
        "A weft thread shot through the shed by the shuttle; a pick.",
        "A shoat; a young hog."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "If you please To shoot an arrow that self way.",
        "The two ends od a bow, shot off, fly from one another.",
        "When Roger shot the hawk hovering over his master's dove house.",
        "An honest weaver as ever shot shuttle.",
        "A pit into which the dead carts had nightly shot corpses by scores.",
        "They shoot out the lip, they shake the head.",
        "Beware the secret snake that shoots a sting.",
        "Two pieces of wood that are shot, that is, planed or else pared with a paring chisel.",
        "She . . . shoots the Stygian sound.",
        "The tangled water courses slept, Shot over with purple, and green, and yellow.",
        "The archers have . . . shot at him.",
        "There shot a streaming lamp along the sky.",
        "Thy words shoot through my heart.",
        "These preachers make His head to shoot and ache.",
        "Onions, as they hang, will shoot forth.",
        "But the wild olive shoots, and shades the ungrateful plain.",
        "Well shot in years he seemed.",
        "Delightful task! to rear the tender thought, To teach the young idea how to shoot.",
        "If the menstruum be overcharged, metals will shoot into crystals.",
        "There shot up against the dark sky, tall, gaunt, straggling houses.",
        "The Turkish bow giveth a very forcible shoot.",
        "One underneath his horse to get a shoot doth stalk.",
        "Superfluous branches and shoots of this second spring."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. chute. See Chute. Confused with shoot to let fly.]"
}