{
    "word": "Shoulder",
    "definitions": [
        "The joint, or the region of the joint, by which the fore limb is connected with the body or with the shoulder girdle; the projection formed by the bones and muscles about that joint.",
        "The flesh and muscles connected with the shoulder joint; the upper part of the back; that part of the human frame on which it is most easy to carry a heavy burden; -- often used in the plural.",
        "Fig.: That which supports or sustains; support.",
        "That which resembles a human shoulder, as any protuberance or projection from the body of a thing.",
        "The upper joint of the fore leg and adjacent parts of an animal, dressed for market; as, a shoulder of mutton.",
        "The angle of a bastion included between the face and flank. See Illust. of Bastion.",
        "An abrupt projection which forms an abutment on an object, or limits motion, etc., as the projection around a tenon at the end of a piece of timber, the part of the top of a type which projects beyond the base of the raised character, etc.",
        "To push or thrust with the shoulder; to push with violence; to jostle.",
        "To take upon the shoulder or shoulders; as, to shoulder a basket; hence, to assume the burden or responsibility of; as, to shoulder blame; to shoulder a debt.",
        "To push with the shoulder; to make one's way, as through a crowd, by using the shoulders; to move swaying the shoulders from side to side."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Then by main force pulled up, and on his shoulders bore The gates of Azza.",
        "Adown her shoulders fell her length of hair.",
        "In thy shoulder do I build my seat.",
        "The north western shoulder of the mountain.",
        "As they the earth would shoulder from her seat.",
        "Around her numberless the rabble flowed, Shouldering each other, crowding for a view.",
        "As if Hercules Or burly Atlas shouldered up their state.",
        "A yoke of the great sulky white bullocks . . . came shouldering along together."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. shulder, shuldre, schutder, AS. sculdor; akin to D. schoulder, G. schulter, OHG. scultarra, Dan. skulder, Sw. skuldra.]"
}