{
    "word": "Show",
    "definitions": [
        "To exhibit or present to view; to place in sight; to display; -- the thing exhibited being the object, and often with an indirect object denoting the person or thing seeing or beholding; as, to show a house; show your colors; shopkeepers show customers goods (show goods to customers).",
        "To exhibit to the mental view; to tell; to disclose; to reveal; to make known; as, to show one's designs.",
        "Specifically, to make known the way to (a person); hence, to direct; to guide; to asher; to conduct; as, to show a person into a parlor; to show one to the door.",
        "To make apparent or clear, as by evidence, testimony, or reasoning; to prove; to explain; also, to manifest; to evince; as, to show the truth of a statement; to show the causes of an event.",
        "To bestow; to confer; to afford; as, to show favor.",
        "To exhibit or manifest one's self or itself; to appear; to look; to be in appearance; to seem.",
        "To have a certain appearance, as well or ill, fit or unfit; to become or suit; to appear.",
        "The act of showing, or bringing to view; exposure to sight; exhibition.",
        "That which os shown, or brought to view; that which is arranged to be seen; a spectacle; an exhibition; as, a traveling show; a cattle show.",
        "Proud or ostentatious display; parade; pomp.",
        "Semblance; likeness; appearance.",
        "False semblance; deceitful appearance; pretense.",
        "A discharge, from the vagina, of mucus streaked with blood, occuring a short time before labor.",
        "A pale blue flame, at the top of a candle flame, indicating the presence of fire damp."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Go thy way, shew thyself to the priest.",
        "Nor want we skill or art from whence to raise Magnificence; and what can heaven show more?",
        "Shew them the way wherein they must walk.",
        "If it please my father to do thee evil, then I will shew it thee, and send thee away.",
        "I 'll show my duty by my timely care.",
        "Shewing mercy unto thousands of them that love me.",
        "Just such she shows before a rising storm.",
        "All round a hedge upshoots, and shows At distance like a little wood.",
        "My lord of York, it better showed with you.",
        "As for triumphs, masks, feasts, and such shows.",
        "I envy none their pageantry and show.",
        "He through the midst unmarked, In show plebeian angel militant Of lowest order, passed.",
        "Beware of the scribes, . . . which devour widows' houses, and for a shew make long prayers."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. schowen, shewen, schewen, shawen, AS. sce, to look, see, view; akin to OS. scaw, OFries. skawia, D. schouwen, OHG. scouw, G. schauen, Dan. skue, Sw. sk, Icel. sko, Goth. usskawjan to waken, skuggwa a mirror, Icel. skuggy shade, shadow, L. cavere to be on one's guard, Gr. kavi wise. Cf. Caution, Scavenger, Sheen.]"
}