{
    "word": "Sign",
    "definitions": [
        "That by which anything is made known or represented; that which furnishes evidence; a mark; a token; an indication; a proof.",
        "A remarkable event, considered by the ancients as indicating the will of some deity; a prodigy; an omen.",
        "An event considered by the Jews as indicating the divine will, or as manifesting an interposition of the divine power for some special end; a miracle; a wonder.",
        "Something serving to indicate the existence, or preserve the memory, of a thing; a token; a memorial; a monument.",
        "Any symbol or emblem which prefigures, typifles, or represents, an idea; a type; hence, sometimes, a picture.",
        "A word or a character regarded as the outward manifestation of thought; as, words are the sign of ideas.",
        "A motion, an action, or a gesture by which a thought is expressed, or a command or a wish made known.",
        "Hence, one of the gestures of pantomime, or of a language of a signs such as those used by the North American Indians, or those used by the deaf and dumb.",
        "A military emblem carried on a banner or a standard.",
        "A lettered board, or other conspicuous notice, placed upon or before a building, room, shop, or office to advertise the business there transacted, or the name of the person or firm carrying it on; a publicly displayed token or notice.",
        "The twelfth part of the ecliptic or zodiac.",
        "A character indicating the relation of quantities, or an operation performed upon them; as, the sign + (plus); the sign -- (minus); the sign of division .",
        "An objective evidence of disease; that is, one appreciable by some one other than the patient.",
        "Any character, as a flat, sharp, dot, etc.",
        "That which, being external, stands for, or signifies, something internal or spiritual; -- a term used in the Church of England in speaking of an ordinance considered with reference to that which it represents.",
        "To represent by a sign; to make known in a typical or emblematic manner, in distinction from speech; to signify.",
        "To make a sign upon; to mark with a sign.",
        "To affix a signature to; to ratify by hand or seal; to subscribe in one's own handwriting.",
        "To assign or convey formally; -- used with away.",
        "To mark; to make distinguishable.",
        "To be a sign or omen.",
        "To make a sign or signal; to communicate directions or intelligence by signs.",
        "To communicate in sign language.",
        "To write one's name, esp. as a token of assent, responsibility, or obligation; as, he signed in red ink."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Through mighty signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God.",
        "It shall come to pass, if they will not believe thee, neither hearken to the voice of the first sign, that they will believe the voice of the latter sign.",
        "What time the fire devoured two hundred and fifty men, and they became a sign.",
        "The holy symbols, or signs, are not barely significative; but what they represent is as certainly delivered to us as the symbols themselves.",
        "Saint George of Merry England, the sign of victory.",
        "They made signs to his father, how he would have him called.",
        "The shops were, therefore, distinguished by painted signs, which gave a gay and grotesque aspect to the streets.",
        "An outward and visible sign of an inward and spiritual grace.",
        "I signed to Browne to make his retreat.",
        "We receive this child into the congregation of Christ's flock, and do sign him with the sign of the cross.",
        "Inquire the Jew's house out, give him this deed, And let him sign it."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. signe, L. signum; cf. AS. segen, segn, a sign, standard, banner, also fr. L. signum. Cf. Ensign, Resign, Seal a stamp, Signal, Signet.]"
}