{
    "word": "Simple",
    "definitions": [
        "Single; not complex; not infolded or entangled; uncombined; not compounded; not blended with something else; not complicated; as, a simple substance; a simple idea; a simple sound; a simple machine; a simple problem; simple tasks.",
        "Plain; unadorned; as, simple dress.",
        "Mere; not other than; being only.",
        "Not given to artifice, stratagem, or duplicity; undesigning; sincere; true.",
        "Artless in manner; unaffected; unconstrained; natural; inartificial;; straightforward.",
        "Direct; clear; intelligible; not abstruse or enigmatical; as, a simple statement; simple language.",
        "Weak in intellect; not wise or sagacious; of but moderate understanding or attainments; hence, foolish; silly.",
        "Not luxurious; without much variety; plain; as, a simple diet; a simple way of living.",
        "Humble; lowly; undistinguished.",
        "Without subdivisions; entire; as, a simple stem; a simple leaf.",
        "Not capable of being decomposed into anything more simple or ultimate by any means at present known; elementary; thus, atoms are regarded as simple bodies. Cf. Ultimate, a.",
        "Homogenous.",
        "Consisting of a single individual or zooid; as, a simple ascidian; -- opposed to compound.",
        "Something not mixed or compounded.",
        "A medicinal plant; -- so called because each vegetable was supposed to possess its particular virtue, and therefore to constitute a simple remedy.",
        "A drawloom.",
        "A part of the apparatus for raising the heddles of a drawloom.",
        "A feast which is not a double or a semidouble.",
        "To gather simples, or medicinal plants."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "A medicine . . . whose simple touch Is powerful to araise King Pepin.",
        "Full many fine men go upon my score, as simple as I stand here, and I trust them.",
        "Must thou trust Tradition's simple tongue?",
        "To be simple is to be great.",
        "In simple manners all the secret lies.",
        "The simple believeth every word; but the prudent man looketh well to his going.",
        "Thy simple fare and all thy plain delights.",
        "A simple husbandman in garments gray.",
        "Clergy and laity, male and female, gentle and simple made the fuel of the same fire.",
        "I am a simple woman, much too weak To oppose your cunning.",
        "He is the companion of the silliest people in their most silly pleasure; he is ready for every impertinent entertainment and diversion.",
        "What virtue is in this remedy lies in the naked simple itself as it comes over from the Indies.",
        "As simpling on the flowery hills she [Circe] strayed."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F., fr. L. simplus, or simplex, gen. simplicis. The first part of the Latin words is probably akin to E. same, and the sense, one, one and the same; cf. L. semel once, singuli one to each, single. Cg. Single, a., Same, a., and for the last part of the word cf. Double, Complex.]"
}