{
    "word": "Slide",
    "definitions": [
        "To move along the surface of any body by slipping, or without walking or rolling; to slip; to glide; as, snow slides down the mountain's side.",
        "Especially, to move over snow or ice with a smooth, uninterrupted motion, as on a sled moving by the force of gravity, or on the feet.",
        "To pass inadvertently.",
        "To pass along smoothly or unobservedly; to move gently onward without friction or hindrance; as, a ship or boat slides through the water.",
        "To slip when walking or standing; to fall.",
        "To pass from one note to another with no perceptible cassation of sound.",
        "To pass out of one's thought as not being of any consequence.",
        "To cause to slide; to thrust along; as, to slide one piece of timber along another.",
        "To pass or put imperceptibly; to slip; as, to slide in a word to vary the sense of a question.",
        "The act of sliding; as, a slide on the ice.",
        "Smooth, even passage or progress.",
        "That on which anything moves by sliding.",
        "An inclined plane on which heavy bodies slide by the force of gravity, esp. one constructed on a mountain side for conveying logs by sliding them down.",
        "A surface of ice or snow on which children slide for amusement.",
        "That which operates by sliding.",
        "A cover which opens or closes an aperture by sliding over it.",
        "A moving piece which is guided by a part or parts along which it slides.",
        "A clasp or brooch for a belt, or the like.",
        "A plate or slip of glass on which is a picture or delineation to be exhibited by means of a magic lantern, stereopticon, or the like; a plate on which is an object to be examined with a microscope.",
        "The descent of a mass of earth, rock, or snow down a hill or mountain side; as, a land slide, or a snow slide; also, the track of bare rock left by a land slide.",
        "A small dislocation in beds of rock along a line of fissure.",
        "A grace consisting of two or more small notes moving by conjoint degrees, and leading to a principal note either above or below.",
        "An apparatus in the trumpet and trombone by which the sounding tube is lengthened and shortened so as to produce the tones between the fundamental and its harmonics.",
        "A sound which, by a gradual change in the position of the vocal organs, passes imperceptibly into another sound.",
        "Same as Guide bar, under Guide.",
        "A slide valve."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "They bathe in summer, and in winter slide.",
        "Beware thou slide not by it.",
        "Ages shall slide away without perceiving.",
        "Parts answering parts shall slide into a whole.",
        "Their foot shall slide in due time.",
        "With good hope let he sorrow slide.",
        "With a calm carelessness letting everything slide.",
        "A better slide into their business."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. sliden, AS. sl; akin to MHG. sl, also to AS. slidor slippery, E. sled, Lith. slidus slippery. Cf. Sled.]"
}