{
    "word": "Slip",
    "definitions": [
        "To move along the surface of a thing without bounding, rolling, or stepping; to slide; to glide.",
        "To slide; to lose one's footing or one's hold; not to tread firmly; as, it is necessary to walk carefully lest the foot should slip.",
        "To move or fly (out of place); to shoot; -- often with out, off, etc.; as, a bone may slip out of its place.",
        "To depart, withdraw, enter, appear, intrude, or escape as if by sliding; to go or come in a quiet, furtive manner; as, some errors slipped into the work.",
        "To err; to fall into error or fault.",
        "To cause to move smoothly and quickly; to slide; to convey gently or secretly.",
        "To omit; to loose by negligence.",
        "To cut slips from; to cut; to take off; to make a slip or slips of; as, to slip a piece of cloth or paper.",
        "To let loose in pursuit of game, as a greyhound.",
        "To cause to slip or slide off, or out of place; as, a horse slips his bridle; a dog slips his collar.",
        "To bring forth (young) prematurely; to slink.",
        "The act of slipping; as, a slip on the ice.",
        "An unintentional error or fault; a false step.",
        "A twig separated from the main stock; a cutting; a scion; hence, a descendant; as, a slip from a vine.",
        "A slender piece; a strip; as, a slip of paper.",
        "A leash or string by which a dog is held; -- so called from its being made in such a manner as to slip, or become loose, by relaxation of the hand.",
        "An escape; a secret or unexpected desertion; as, to give one the slip.",
        "A portion of the columns of a newspaper or other work struck off by itself; a proof from a column of type when set up and in the galley.",
        "Any covering easily slipped on.",
        "A loose garment worn by a woman.",
        "A child's pinafore.",
        "An outside covering or case; as, a pillow slip.",
        "The slip or sheath of a sword, and the like.",
        "A counterfeit piece of money, being brass covered with silver.",
        "Matter found in troughs of grindstones after the grinding of edge tools.",
        "Potter's clay in a very liquid state, used for the decoration of ceramic ware, and also as a cement for handles and other applied parts.",
        "A particular quantity of yarn.",
        "An inclined plane on which a vessel is built, or upon which it is hauled for repair.",
        "An opening or space for vessels to lie in, between wharves or in a dock; as, Peck slip.",
        "A narrow passage between buildings.",
        "A long seat or narrow pew in churches, often without a door.",
        "A dislocation of a lead, destroying continuity.",
        "The motion of the center of resistance of the float of a paddle wheel, or the blade of an oar, through the water horozontally, or the difference between a vessel's actual speed and the speed which she would have if the propelling instrument acted upon a solid; also, the velocity, relatively to still water, of the backward current of water produced by the propeller.",
        "A fish, the sole.",
        "A fielder stationed on the off side and to the rear of the batsman. There are usually two of them, called respectively short slip, and long slip.",
        "The retrograde movement on a pulley of a belt as it slips.",
        "In a link motion, the undesirable sliding movement of the link relatively to the link block, due to swinging of the link.",
        "The difference between the actual and synchronous speed of an induction motor.",
        "A memorandum of the particulars of a risk for which a policy is to be executed. It usually bears the broker's name and is initiated by the underwrites."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Thus one tradesman slips away, To give his partner fairer play.",
        "Thrice the flitting shadow slipped away.",
        "There is one that slippeth in his speech, but not from his heart.",
        "Cry, let slip the dogs of war.",
        "He tried to slip a powder into her drink.",
        "And slip no advantage That my secure you.",
        "The branches also may be slipped and planted.",
        "Lucento slipped me like his greyhound.",
        "This good man's slip mended his pace to martyrdom.",
        "A native slip to us from foreign seeds.",
        "The girlish slip of a Sicilian bride.",
        "Moonlit slips of silver cloud.",
        "A thin slip of a girl, like a new moon Sure to be rounded into beauty soon.",
        "We stalked over the extensive plains with Killbuck and Lena in the slips, in search of deer."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. slippen; akin to LG. & D. slippen, MHG. slipfen (cf. Dan. slippe, Sw. slippa, Icel. sleppa), and fr. OE. slipen, AS. sl (in comp.), akin to G. schleifen to slide, glide, drag, whet, OHG. sl to slide, glide, make smooth, Icel. sl to whet; cf. also AS. sl, Goth. sliupan, OS. slopian, OHG. sliofan, G. schliefen, schl, which seem to come from a somewhat different root form. Cf. Slope, n.]"
}