{
    "word": "Snap",
    "definitions": [
        "To break at once; to break short, as substances that are brittle.",
        "To strike, to hit, or to shut, with a sharp sound.",
        "To bite or seize suddenly, especially with the teeth.",
        "To break upon suddenly with sharp, angry words; to treat snappishly; -- usually with up.",
        "To crack; to cause to make a sharp, cracking noise; as, to snap a whip.",
        "To project with a snap.",
        "To catch out sharply (a batsman who has just snicked a bowled ball).",
        "To break short, or at once; to part asunder suddenly; as, a mast snaps; a needle snaps.",
        "To give forth, or produce, a sharp, cracking noise; to crack; as, blazing firewood snaps.",
        "To make an effort to bite; to aim to seize with the teeth; to catch eagerly (at anything); -- often with at; as, a dog snapsat a passenger; a fish snaps at the bait.",
        "To utter sharp, harsh, angry words; -- often with at; as, to snap at a child.",
        "To miss fire; as, the gun snapped.",
        "Of the eyes, to emit sudden, brief sparkles like those of a snapping fire, as sometimes in anger.",
        "A sudden breaking or rupture of any substance.",
        "A sudden, eager bite; a sudden seizing, or effort to seize, as with the teeth.",
        "A sudden, sharp motion or blow, as with the finger sprung from the thumb, or the thumb from the finger.",
        "A sharp, abrupt sound, as that made by the crack of a whip; as, the snap of the trigger of a gun.",
        "A greedy fellow.",
        "That which is, or may be, snapped up; something bitten off, seized, or obtained by a single quick movement; hence, a bite, morsel, or fragment; a scrap.",
        "A sudden severe interval or spell; -- applied to the weather; as, a cold snap.",
        "A small catch or fastening held or closed by means of a spring, or one which closes with a snapping sound, as the catch of a bracelet, necklace, clasp of a book, etc.",
        "A snap beetle.",
        "A thin, crisp cake, usually small, and flavored with ginger; -- used chiefly in the plural.",
        "Briskness; vigor; energy; decision.",
        "Any circumstance out of which money may be made or an advantage gained.",
        "Any task, labor, set of circumstances, or the like, that yields satisfactory results or gives pleasure with little trouble or effort, as an easy course of study, a job where work is light, a bargain, etc.",
        "A snap shot with a firearm.",
        "A snapshot.",
        "Something of no value; as, not worth a snap.",
        "The action of snapping the ball back, from the center usu. to the quarterback, which commences the play (down), and, if the clock had stopped, restarts the timer clock; a snap back.",
        "Done, performed, made, executed, carried through, or the like, quickly and without deliberation; as, a snap judgment or decision; a snap political convention."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Breaks the doors open, snaps the locks.",
        "He, by playing too often at the mouth of death, has been snapped by it at last.",
        "MacMorian snapped his fingers repeatedly.",
        "But this weapon will snap short, unfaithful to the hand that employs it.",
        "He's a nimble fellow, And alike skilled in every liberal science, As having certain snaps of all."
    ],
    "etymology": "[LG. or D. snappen to snap up, to snatch; akin to G. schnappen, MHG. snaben, Dan. snappe, and to D. snavel beak, bill. Cf. Neb, Snaffle, n.]"
}