{
    "word": "So",
    "definitions": [
        "In that manner or degree; as, indicated (in any way), or as implied, or as supposed to be known.",
        "In like manner or degree; in the same way; thus; for like reason; whith equal reason; -- used correlatively, following as, to denote comparison or resemblance; sometimes, also, following inasmuch as.",
        "In such manner; to such degree; -- used correlatively with as or that following; as, he was so fortunate as to escape.",
        "Very; in a high degree; that is, in such a degree as can not well be expressed; as, he is so good; he planned so wisely.",
        "In the same manner; as has been stated or suggested; in this or that condition or state; under these circumstances; in this way; -- with reflex reference to something just asserted or implied; used also with the verb to be, as a predicate.",
        "The case being such; therefore; on this account; for this reason; on these terms; -- used both as an adverb and a conjuction.",
        "It is well; let it be as it is, or let it come to pass; -- used to express assent.",
        "Well; the fact being as stated; -- used as an expletive; as, so the work is done, is it?",
        "Is it thus? do you mean what you say? -- with an upward tone; as, do you say he refuses? So?",
        "About the number, time, or quantity specified; thereabouts; more or less; as, I will spend a week or so in the country; I have read only a page or so.",
        "Provided that; on condition that; in case that; if.",
        "Be as you are; stand still; stop; that will do; right as you are; -- a word used esp. to cows; also used by sailors."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Why is his chariot so long in coming?",
        "As a war should be undertaken upon a just motive, so a prince ought to consider the condition he is in.",
        "I viewed in may mind, so far as I was able, the beginning and progress of a rising world.",
        "He is very much in Sir Roger's esteem, so that he lives in the family rather as a relation than dependent.",
        "Use him [your tutor] with great respect yourself, and cause all your family to do so too.",
        "It concerns every man, with the greatest seriousness, to inquire into those matters, whether they be so or not.",
        "He is Sir Robert's son, and so art thou.",
        "God makes him in his own image an intellectual creature, and so capable of dominion.",
        "Here, then, exchange we mutually forgiveness; So may the guilt of all my broken vows, My perjuries to thee, be all forgotten.",
        "And when 't is writ, for my sake read it over, And if it please you, so; if not, why, so.",
        "There is Percy; if your father will do me any honor, so; if not, let him kill the next Percy himself.",
        "A week or so will probably reconcile us.",
        "So do, as thou hast said.",
        "As a flower of the field, so he flourisheth.",
        "Had woman been so strong as men.",
        "No country suffered so much as England.",
        "Though all the winds of doctrine were let loose play upon the earth, so truth be in the field, we do injuriously, by licensing and prohibiting, to misdoubt her strength."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. so, sa, swa, AS. sw; akin to OFries, s, s, D. zoo, OS. & OHG. s, G. so, Icel. sv, sv, svo, so, Sw. s, Dan. saa, Goth. swa so, sw as; cf. L. suus one's own, Skr. sva one's own, one's self. Custom, Ethic, Idiom, Such.]"
}