{
    "word": "Spare",
    "definitions": [
        "To use frugally or stintingly, as that which is scarce or valuable; to retain or keep unused; to save.",
        "To keep to one's self; to forbear to impart or give.",
        "To preserve from danger or punishment; to forbear to punish, injure, or harm; to show mercy to.",
        "To save or gain, as by frugality; to reserve, as from some occupation, use, or duty.",
        "To deprive one's self of, as by being frugal; to do without; to dispense with; to give up; to part with.",
        "To be frugal; not to be profuse; to live frugally; to be parsimonious.",
        "To refrain from inflicting harm; to use mercy or forbearance.",
        "To desist; to stop; to refrain.",
        "Scanty; not abundant or plentiful; as, a spare diet.",
        "Sparing; frugal; parsimonious; chary.",
        "Being over and above what is necessary, or what must be used or reserved; not wanted, or not used; superfluous; as, I have no spare time.",
        "Held in reserve, to be used in an emergency; as, a spare anchor; a spare bed or room.",
        "Lean; wanting flesh; meager; thin; gaunt.",
        "Slow.",
        "The act of sparing; moderation; restraint.",
        "Parsimony; frugal use.",
        "An opening in a petticoat or gown; a placket.",
        "That which has not been used or expended.",
        "The right of bowling again at a full set of pins, after having knocked all the pins down in less than three bowls. If all the pins are knocked down in one bowl it is a double spare; in two bowls, a single spare. For the meaning in modern bowling, see sense 6.",
        "The act of knocking down all ten pins in two bowls, which entitles the bowler to add the number of pins knocked down in the next bowl to the score for the frame in which the spare occurred."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "[Thou] thy Father's dreadful thunder didst not spare.",
        "He that hath knowledge, spareth his words.",
        "Be pleased your plitics to spare.",
        "Spare my sight the pain Of seeing what a world of tears it costs you.",
        "Spare us, good Lord.",
        "Dim sadness did not spare That time celestial visages.",
        "Man alone can whom he conquers spare.",
        "All the time he could spare from the necessary cares of his weighty charge, he Knolles. [1913 Webster]",
        "Where angry Jove did never spare One breath of kind and temperate air.",
        "I could have better spared a better man.",
        "Her thought that a lady should her spare.",
        "I, who at some times spend, at others spare, Divided between carelessness and care.",
        "He will not spare in the day of vengeance.",
        "He was spare, but discreet of speech.",
        "If that no spare clothes he had to give.",
        "O, give me the spare men, and spare me the great ones.",
        "Killing for sacrifice, without any spare.",
        "Poured out their plenty without spite or spare."
    ],
    "etymology": "[AS. sparian, fr. spaer spare, sparing, saving; akin to D. & G. sparen, OHG. spar, Icel. & Sw. spara, Dan. spare See Spare, a.]"
}