{
    "word": "Speak",
    "definitions": [
        "To utter words or articulate sounds, as human beings; to express thoughts by words; as, the organs may be so obstructed that a man may not be able to speak.",
        "To express opinions; to say; to talk; to converse.",
        "To utter a speech, discourse, or harangue; to adress a public assembly formally.",
        "To discourse; to make mention; to tell.",
        "To give sound; to sound.",
        "To convey sentiments, ideas, or intelligence as if by utterance; as, features that speak of self-will.",
        "To utter with the mouth; to pronounce; to utter articulately, as human beings.",
        "To utter in a word or words; to say; to tell; to declare orally; as, to speak the truth; to speak sense.",
        "To declare; to proclaim; to publish; to make known; to exhibit; to express in any way.",
        "To talk or converse in; to utter or pronounce, as in conversation; as, to speak Latin.",
        "To address; to accost; to speak to."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Till at the last spake in this manner.",
        "Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth.",
        "That fluid substance in a few minutes begins to set, as the tradesmen speak.",
        "An honest man, is able to speak for himself, when a knave is not.",
        "During the century and a half which followed the Conquest, there is, to speak strictly, no English history.",
        "Many of the nobility made themselves popular by speaking in Parliament against those things which were most grateful to his majesty.",
        "Lycan speaks of a part of Caesar's army that came to him from the Leman Lake.",
        "Make all our trumpets speak.",
        "Thine eye begins to speak.",
        "They sat down with him upn ground seven days and seven nights, and none spake a word unto him.",
        "It is my father;s muste To speak your deeds.",
        "Speaking a still good morrow with her eyes.",
        "And for the heaven's wide circuit, let it speak The maker's high magnificence.",
        "Report speaks you a bonny monk.",
        "And French she spake full fair and fetisely.",
        "[He will] thee in hope; he will speak thee fair.",
        "each village senior paused to scan And speak the lovely caravan."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. speken, AS. specan, sprecan; akin to OF.ries. spreka, D. spreken, OS. spreken, G. sprechen, OHG. sprehhan, and perhaps to Skr. sph to crackle, to thunder. Cf. Spark of fire, Speech.]"
}