{
    "word": "Spell",
    "definitions": [
        "A spelk, or splinter.",
        "To supply the place of for a time; to take the turn of, at work; to relieve; as, to spell the helmsman.",
        "The relief of one person by another in any piece of work or watching; also, a turn at work which is carried on by one person or gang relieving another; as, a spell at the pumps; a spell at the masthead.",
        "The time during which one person or gang works until relieved; hence, any relatively short period of time, whether a few hours, days, or weeks.",
        "One of two or more persons or gangs who work by spells.",
        "A gratuitous helping forward of another's work; as, a logging spell.",
        "A story; a tale.",
        "A stanza, verse, or phrase supposed to be endowed with magical power; an incantation; hence, any charm.",
        "To tell; to relate; to teach.",
        "To put under the influence of a spell; to affect by a spell; to bewitch; to fascinate; to charm.",
        "To constitute; to measure.",
        "To tell or name in their proper order letters of, as a word; to write or print in order the letters of, esp. the proper letters; to form, as words, by correct orthography.",
        "To discover by characters or marks; to read with difficulty; -- usually with out; as, to spell out the sense of an author; to spell out a verse in the Bible.",
        "To form words with letters, esp. with the proper letters, either orally or in writing.",
        "To study by noting characters; to gain knowledge or learn the meaning of anything, by study."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "A spell at the wheel is called a trick.",
        "Nothing new has happened in this quarter, except the setting in of a severe spell of cold weather.",
        "Their toil is so extreme that they can not endure it above four hours in a day, but are succeeded by spells.",
        "Start not; her actions shall be holy as You hear my spell is lawful.",
        "Might I that legend find, By fairies spelt in mystic rhymes.",
        "He was much spelled with Eleanor Talbot.",
        "The Saxon heptarchy, when seven kings put together did spell but one in effect.",
        "The word spelled with i, and not with y.",
        "To spell out a God in the works of creation.",
        "To sit spelling and observing divine justice upon every accident.",
        "When what small knowledge was, in them did dwell, And he a god, who could but read or spell.",
        "Where I may sit and rightly spell Of every star that heaven doth shew, And every herb that sips the dew."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. speld, AS. speld a spill to light a candle with; akin to D. speld a pin, OD. spelle, G. spalten to split, OHG. spaltan, MHG. spelte a splinter, Icel. spjald a square tablet, Goth. spilda a writing tablet. Cf. Spillsplinter, roll of paper, Spell to tell the letters of.]"
}