{
    "word": "Spirit",
    "definitions": [
        "Air set in motion by breathing; breath; hence, sometimes, life itself.",
        "A rough breathing; an aspirate, as the letter h; also, a mark to denote aspiration; a breathing.",
        "Life, or living substance, considered independently of corporeal existence; an intelligence conceived of apart from any physical organization or embodiment; vital essence, force, or energy, as distinct from matter.",
        "The intelligent, immaterial and immortal part of man; the soul, in distinction from the body in which it resides; the agent or subject of vital and spiritual functions, whether spiritual or material.",
        "Specifically, a disembodied soul; the human soul after it has left the body.",
        "Any supernatural being, good or bad; an apparition; a specter; a ghost; also, sometimes, a sprite,; a fairy; an elf.",
        "Energy, vivacity, ardor, enthusiasm, courage, etc.",
        "One who is vivacious or lively; one who evinces great activity or peculiar characteristics of mind or temper; as, a ruling spirit; a schismatic spirit.",
        "Temper or disposition of mind; mental condition or disposition; intellectual or moral state; -- often in the plural; as, to be cheerful, or in good spirits; to be downhearted, or in bad spirits.",
        "Intent; real meaning; -- opposed to the letter, or to formal statement; also, characteristic quality, especially such as is derived from the individual genius or the personal character; as, the spirit of an enterprise, of a document, or the like.",
        "Tenuous, volatile, airy, or vapory substance, possessed of active qualities.",
        "Any liquid produced by distillation; especially, alcohol, the spirits, or spirit, of wine (it having been first distilled from wine): -- often in the plural.",
        "Rum, whisky, brandy, gin, and other distilled liquors having much alcohol, in distinction from wine and malt liquors.",
        "A solution in alcohol of a volatile principle. Cf. Tincture.",
        "Any one of the four substances, sulphur, sal ammoniac, quicksilver, or arsenic (or, according to some, orpiment).",
        "Stannic chloride. See under Stannic.",
        "To animate with vigor; to excite; to encourage; to inspirit; as, civil dissensions often spirit the ambition of private men; -- sometimes followed by up.",
        "To convey rapidly and secretly, or mysteriously, as if by the agency of a spirit; to kidnap; -- often with away, or off."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The mild air, with season moderate, Gently attempered, and disposed eo well, That still it breathed foorth sweet spirit.",
        "Be it a letter or spirit, we have great use for it.",
        "There is a spirit in man; and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding.",
        "As the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also.",
        "Spirit is a substance wherein thinking, knowing, doubting, and a power of moving, do subsist.",
        "Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was, and the spirit shall return unto God who gave it.",
        "Ye gentle spirits far away, With whom we shared the cup of grace.",
        "Whilst young, preserve his tender mind from all impressions of spirits and goblins in the dark.",
        "spirits together, like the last blaze of a candle going out, he indited it, and expired.",
        "Such spirits as he desired to please, such would I choose for my judges.",
        "God has . . . made a spirit of building succeed a spirit of pulling down.",
        "A perfect judge will read each work of wit With the same spirit that its author writ.",
        "All bodies have spirits . . . within them.",
        "The four spirits and the bodies seven.",
        "Many officers and private men spirit up and assist those obstinate people to continue in their rebellion.",
        "The ministry had him spirited away, and carried abroad as a dangerous person.",
        "I felt as if I had been spirited into some castle of antiquity."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OF. espirit, esperit, F. esprit, L. spiritus, from spirare to breathe, to blow. Cf. Conspire, Expire, Esprit, Sprite.]"
}