{
    "word": "Spoil",
    "definitions": [
        "To plunder; to strip by violence; to pillage; to rob; -- with of before the name of the thing taken; as, to spoil one of his goods or possessions.",
        "To seize by violence; to take by force; to plunder.",
        "To cause to decay and perish; to corrupt; to vitiate; to mar.",
        "To render useless by injury; to injure fatally; to ruin; to destroy; as, to spoil paper; to have the crops spoiled by insects; to spoil the eyes by reading.",
        "To practice plunder or robbery.",
        "To lose the valuable qualities; to be corrupted; to decay; as, fruit will soon spoil in warm weather.",
        "That which is taken from another by violence; especially, the plunder taken from an enemy; pillage; booty.",
        "Public offices and their emoluments regarded as the peculiar property of a successful party or faction, to be bestowed for its own advantage; -- commonly in the plural; as, to the victor belong the spoils.",
        "That which is gained by strength or effort.",
        "The act or practice of plundering; robbery; waste.",
        "Corruption; cause of corruption.",
        "The slough, or cast skin, of a serpent or other animal."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "My sons their old, unhappy sire despise, Spoiled of his kingdom, and deprived of eyes.",
        "No man can enter into a strong man's house, and spoil his goods, except he will first bind the strong man.",
        "Spiritual pride spoils many graces.",
        "Outlaws, which, lurking in woods, used to break forth to rob and spoil.",
        "Gentle gales, Fanning their odoriferous wings, dispense Native perfumes, and whisper whence they stole Those balmy spoils.",
        "From a principle of gratitude I adhered to the coalition; my vote was counted in the day of battle, but I was overlooked in the division of the spoil.",
        "Each science and each art his spoil.",
        "The man that hath no music in himself, Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds, Is fit for treason, stratagems, and spoils.",
        "Villainous company hath been the spoil of me."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. spolier, OF. espoillier, fr. L. spoliare, fr. spolium spoil. Cf. Despoil, Spoliation.]"
}