{
    "word": "Square",
    "definitions": [
        "Hence, anything which is square, or nearly so",
        "A square piece or fragment.",
        "A pane of glass.",
        "A certain number of lines, forming a portion of a column, nearly square; -- used chiefly in reckoning the prices of advertisements in newspapers.",
        "One hundred superficial feet.",
        "An area of four sides, generally with houses on each side; sometimes, a solid block of houses; also, an open place or area for public use, as at the meeting or intersection of two or more streets.",
        "An instrument having at least one right angle and two or more straight edges, used to lay out or test square work. It is of several forms, as the T square, the carpenter's square, the try-square., etc.",
        "Hence, a pattern or rule.",
        "The product of a number or quantity multiplied by itself; thus, 64 is the square of 8, for 8 ; the square of a + b is a2 + 2ab + b2.",
        "Exact proportion; justness of workmanship and conduct; regularity; rule.",
        "A body of troops formed in a square, esp. one formed to resist a charge of cavalry; a squadron.",
        "Fig.: The relation of harmony, or exact agreement; equality; level.",
        "The position of planets distant ninety degrees from each other; a quadrate.",
        "The act of squaring, or quarreling; a quarrel.",
        "The front of a woman's dress over the bosom, usually worked or embroidered.",
        "Forming a right angle; as, a square corner.",
        "Having a shape broad for the height, with rectilineal and angular rather than curving outlines; as, a man of a square frame.",
        "Exactly suitable or correspondent; true; just.",
        "Rendering equal justice; exact; fair; honest; as, square dealing.",
        "Even; leaving no balance; as, to make or leave the accounts square.",
        "Leaving nothing; hearty; vigorous.",
        "At right angles with the mast or the keel, and parallel to the horizon; -- said of the yards of a square-rigged vessel when they are so braced.",
        "To form with four equal sides and four right angles.",
        "To form with right angles and straight lines, or flat surfaces; as, to square masons' work.",
        "To compare with, or reduce to, any given measure or standard.",
        "To adjust; to regulate; to mold; to shape; to fit; as, to square our actions by the opinions of others.",
        "To make even, so as to leave no remainder or difference; to balance; as, to square accounts.",
        "To multiply by itself; as, to square a number or a quantity.",
        "To hold a quartile position respecting.",
        "To place at right angles with the keel; as, to square the yards.",
        "To accord or agree exactly; to be consistent with; to conform or agree; to suit; to fit.",
        "To go to opposite sides; to take an attitude of offense or defense, or of defiance; to quarrel.",
        "To take a boxing attitude; -- often with up, sometimes with off."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "He bolted his food down his capacious throat in squares of three inches.",
        "The statue of Alexander VII. stands in the large square of the town.",
        "They of Galatia [were] much more out of square.",
        "I have not kept my square.",
        "We live not on the square with such as these.",
        "She's a most triumphant lady, if report be square to her.",
        "By Heaven, square eaters. More meat, I say.",
        "Square my trial To my proportioned strength.",
        "The icy Goat and Crab that square the Scales.",
        "No works shall find acceptance . . . That square not truly with the Scripture plan.",
        "Are you such fools To square for this?"
    ],
    "etymology": "[Cf. OF. escarrer, esquarrer. See Square, n.]"
}