{
    "word": "Stalk",
    "definitions": [
        "That which resembles the stalk of a plant, as the stem of a quill.",
        "An ornament in the Corinthian capital resembling the stalk of a plant, from which the volutes and helices spring.",
        "One of the two upright pieces of a ladder.",
        "A stem or peduncle, as of certain barnacles and crinoids.",
        "The narrow basal portion of the abdomen of a hymenopterous insect.",
        "The peduncle of the eyes of decapod crustaceans.",
        "An iron bar with projections inserted in a core to strengthen it; a core arbor.",
        "To walk slowly and cautiously; to walk in a stealthy, noiseless manner; -- sometimes used with a reflexive pronoun.",
        "To walk behind something as a screen, for the purpose of approaching game; to proceed under cover.",
        "To walk with high and proud steps; -- usually implying the affectation of dignity, and indicating dislike. The word is used, however, especially by the poets, to express dignity of step.",
        "To follow (a person) persistently, with or without attempts to evade detection; as, the paparazzi stalk celebrities to get candid photographs; obsessed fans may stalk their favorite movie stars.",
        "A high, proud, stately step or walk.",
        "The act or process of stalking."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "To climb by the rungs and the stalks.",
        "Into the chamber he stalked him full still.",
        "[Bertran] stalks close behind her, like a witch's fiend, Pressing to be employed.",
        "The king . . . crept under the shoulder of his led horse; . . . stalk, Bacon. [1913 Webster]",
        "One underneath his horse, to get a shoot doth stalk.",
        "With manly mien he stalked along the ground.",
        "Then stalking through the deep, He fords the ocean.",
        "I forbear myself from entering the lists in which he has long stalked alone and unchallenged.",
        "As for shooting a man from behind a wall, it is cruelly like to stalking a deer.",
        "Thus twice before, . . . With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.",
        "The which with monstrous stalk behind him stepped.",
        "When the stalk was over (the antelope took alarm and ran off before I was within rifle shot) I came back."
    ],
    "etymology": "[AS. staelcan, stealcian to go slowly; cf. stealc high, elevated, Dan. stalke to stalk; probably akin to 1st stalk.]"
}