{
    "word": "Stamp",
    "definitions": [
        "To bring down (the foot) forcibly on the ground or floor; as, he stamped his foot with rage.",
        "To crush; to pulverize; specifically (Metal.), to crush by the blow of a heavy stamp, as ore in a mill.",
        "To impress with some mark or figure; as, to stamp a plate with arms or initials.",
        "Fig.: To impress; to imprint; to fix deeply; as, to stamp virtuous principles on the heart.",
        "To cut out, bend, or indent, as paper, sheet metal, etc., into various forms, by a blow or suddenly applied pressure with a stamp or die, etc.; to mint; to coin.",
        "To put a stamp on, as for postage; as, to stamp a letter; to stamp a legal document.",
        "To strike; to beat; to crush.",
        "To strike the foot forcibly downward.",
        "The act of stamping, as with the foot.",
        "The which stamps; any instrument for making impressions on other bodies, as a die.",
        "The mark made by stamping; a mark imprinted; an impression.",
        "That which is marked; a thing stamped.",
        "A picture cut in wood or metal, or made by impression; a cut; a plate.",
        "An official mark set upon things chargeable with a duty or tax to government, as evidence that the duty or tax is paid; as, the stamp on a bill of exchange.",
        "A stamped or printed device, usually paper, issued by the government at a fixed price, and required by law to be affixed to, or stamped on, certain papers, as evidence that the government dues are paid; as, a postage stamp; a tax stamp; a receipt stamp, etc.",
        "An instrument for cutting out, or shaping, materials, as paper, leather, etc., by a downward pressure.",
        "A character or reputation, good or bad, fixed on anything as if by an imprinted mark; current value; authority; as, these persons have the stamp of dishonesty; the Scriptures bear the stamp of a divine origin.",
        "Make; cast; form; character; as, a man of the same stamp, or of a different stamp.",
        "A kind of heavy hammer, or pestle, raised by water or steam power, for beating ores to powder; anything like a pestle, used for pounding or beating.",
        "A half-penny.",
        "Money, esp. paper money."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "He frets, he fumes, he stares, he stamps the ground.",
        "I took your sin, the calf which ye had made, and burnt it with fire, and stamped it, and ground it very small.",
        "God . . . has stamped no original characters on our minds wherein we may read his being.",
        "These cooks how they stamp and strain and grind.",
        "But starts, exclaims, and stamps, and raves, and dies.",
        "'T is gold so pure It can not bear the stamp without alloy.",
        "That sacred name gives ornament and grace, And, like his stamp, makes basest metals pass.",
        "Hanging a golden stamp about their necks.",
        "At Venice they put out very curious stamps of the several edifices which are most famous for their beauty and magnificence.",
        "Of the same stamp is that which is obtruded on us, that an adamant suspends the attraction of the loadstone.",
        "A soldier of this season's stamp."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. estampe, of German origin. See Stamp, v. t.]"
}