{
    "word": "Step",
    "definitions": [
        "To move the foot in walking; to advance or recede by raising and moving one of the feet to another resting place, or by moving both feet in succession.",
        "To walk; to go on foot; esp., to walk a little distance; as, to step to one of the neighbors.",
        "To walk slowly, gravely, or resolutely.",
        "Fig.: To move mentally; to go in imagination.",
        "To set, as the foot.",
        "To fix the foot of (a mast) in its step; to erect.",
        "An advance or movement made by one removal of the foot; a pace.",
        "A rest, or one of a set of rests, for the foot in ascending or descending, as a stair, or a round of a ladder.",
        "The space passed over by one movement of the foot in walking or running; as, one step is generally about three feet, but may be more or less. Used also figuratively of any kind of progress; as, he improved step by step, or by steps.",
        "A small space or distance; as, it is but a step.",
        "A print of the foot; a footstep; a footprint; track.",
        "Gait; manner of walking; as, the approach of a man is often known by his step.",
        "Proceeding; measure; action; an act.",
        "Walk; passage.",
        "A portable framework of stairs, much used indoors in reaching to a high position.",
        "In general, a framing in wood or iron which is intended to receive an upright shaft; specif., a block of wood, or a solid platform upon the keelson, supporting the heel of the mast.",
        "One of a series of offsets, or parts, resembling the steps of stairs, as one of the series of parts of a cone pulley on which the belt runs.",
        "A bearing in which the lower extremity of a spindle or a vertical shaft revolves.",
        "The intervak between two contiguous degrees of the csale.",
        "A change of position effected by a motion of translation.",
        "At Eton College, England, a shallow step dividing the court into an inner and an outer portion."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Home the swain retreats, His flock before him stepping to the fold.",
        "They are stepping almost three thousand years back into the remotest antiquity.",
        "Whosoever then first, after the troubling of the water, stepped in, was made whole of whatsoever disease he had.",
        "The breadth of every single step or stair should be never less than one foot.",
        "To derive two or three general principles of motion from phenomena, and afterwards to tell us how the properties and actions of all corporeal things follow from those manifest principles, would be a very great step in philosophy.",
        "The reputation of a man depends on the first steps he makes in the world.",
        "Beware of desperate steps. The darkest day, Live till to-morrow, will have passed away.",
        "I have lately taken steps . . . to relieve the old gentleman's distresses.",
        "Conduct my steps to find the fatal tree."
    ],
    "etymology": "[AS. staeppan; akin to OFries. steppa, D. stappen to step, stap a step, OHG. stepfen to step, G. stapfe a footstep, OHG. stapfo, G. stufe a step to step on; cf. Gr. Stamp, n. & a.]"
}