{
    "word": "Stick",
    "definitions": [
        "A small shoot, or branch, separated, as by a cutting, from a tree or shrub; also, any stem or branch of a tree, of any size, cut for fuel or timber.",
        "Any long and comparatively slender piece of wood, whether in natural form or shaped with tools; a rod; a wand; a staff; as, the stick of a rocket; a walking stick.",
        "Anything shaped like a stick; as, a stick of wax.",
        "A derogatory expression for a person; one who is inert or stupid; as, an odd stick; a poor stick.",
        "A composing stick. See under Composing. It is usually a frame of metal, but for posters, handbills, etc., one made of wood is used.",
        "A thrust with a pointed instrument; a stab.",
        "To penetrate with a pointed instrument; to pierce; to stab; hence, to kill by piercing; as, to stick a beast.",
        "To cause to penetrate; to push, thrust, or drive, so as to pierce; as, to stick a needle into one's finger.",
        "To fasten, attach, or cause to remain, by thrusting in; hence, also, to adorn or deck with things fastened on as by piercing; as, to stick a pin on the sleeve.",
        "To set; to fix in; as, to stick card teeth.",
        "To set with something pointed; as, to stick cards.",
        "To fix on a pointed instrument; to impale; as, to stick an apple on a fork.",
        "To attach by causing to adhere to the surface; as, to stick on a plaster; to stick a stamp on an envelope; also, to attach in any manner.",
        "To compose; to set, or arrange, in a composing stick; as, to stick type.",
        "To run or plane (moldings) in a machine, in contradistinction to working them by hand. Such moldings are said to be stuck.",
        "To cause to stick; to bring to a stand; to pose; to puzzle; as, to stick one with a hard problem.",
        "To impose upon; to compel to pay; sometimes, to cheat.",
        "To adhere; as, glue sticks to the fingers; paste sticks to the wall.",
        "To remain where placed; to be fixed; to hold fast to any position so as to be moved with difficulty; to cling; to abide; to cleave; to be united closely.",
        "To be prevented from going farther; to stop by reason of some obstacle; to be stayed.",
        "To be embarrassed or puzzled; to hesitate; to be deterred, as by scruples; to scruple; -- often with at.",
        "To cause difficulties, scruples, or hesitation."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Withered sticks to gather, which might serve Against a winter's day.",
        "And sticked him with bodkins anon.",
        "It was a shame . . . to stick him under the other gentleman's arm while he was redding the fray.",
        "Thou stickest a dagger in me.",
        "My shroud of white, stuck all with yew.",
        "The points of spears are stuck within the shield.",
        "The green caterpillar breedeth in the inward parts of roses not blown, where the dew sticketh.",
        "A friend that sticketh closer than a brother.",
        "I am a kind of bur; I shall stick.",
        "If on your fame our sex a bolt has thrown, 'T will ever stick through malice of your own.",
        "I had most need of blessing, and Stuck in my throat.",
        "The trembling weapon passed Through nine bull hides, . . . and stuck within the last.",
        "They will stick long at part of a demonstration for want of perceiving the connection of two ideas.",
        "Some stick not to say, that the parson and attorney forged a will.",
        "This is the difficulty that sticks with the most reasonable."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. sticke, AS. sticca; akin to stician to stab, prick, pierce, G. stecken a stick, staff, OHG. steccho, Icel. stik a stick. See Stick, v. t..]"
}