{
    "word": "Still",
    "definitions": [
        "Motionless; at rest; quiet; as, to stand still; to lie or sit still.",
        "Uttering no sound; silent; as, the audience is still; the animals are still.",
        "Not disturbed by noise or agitation; quiet; calm; as, a still evening; a still atmosphere.",
        "Comparatively quiet or silent; soft; gentle; low.",
        "Constant; continual.",
        "Not effervescing; not sparkling; as, still wines.",
        "Freedom from noise; calm; silence; as, the still of midnight.",
        "A steep hill or ascent.",
        "To this time; until and during the time now present; now no less than before; yet.",
        "In the future as now and before.",
        "In continuation by successive or repeated acts; always; ever; constantly; uniformly.",
        "In an increasing or additional degree; even more; -- much used with comparatives.",
        "Notwithstanding what has been said or done; in spite of what has occured; nevertheless; -- sometimes used as a conjunction. See Synonym of But.",
        "After that; after what is stated.",
        "To stop, as motion or agitation; to cause to become quiet, or comparatively quiet; to check the agitation of; as, to still the raging sea.",
        "To stop, as noise; to silence.",
        "To appease; to calm; to quiet, as tumult, agitation, or excitement; as, to still the passions.",
        "A vessel, boiler, or copper used in the distillation of liquids; specifically, one used for the distillation of alcoholic liquors; a retort. The name is sometimes applied to the whole apparatus used in in vaporization and condensation.",
        "A house where liquors are distilled; a distillery.",
        "To cause to fall by drops.",
        "To expel spirit from by heat, or to evaporate and condense in a refrigeratory; to distill.",
        "To drop, or flow in drops; to distill."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The sea that roared at thy command, At thy command was still.",
        "By still practice learn to know thy meaning.",
        "It hath been anciently reported, and is still received.",
        "Hourly joys be still upon you!",
        "The desire of fame betrays an ambitious man into indecencies that lessen his reputation; he is still afraid lest any of his actions should be thrown away in private.",
        "Chemists would be rich if they could still do in great quantities what they have sometimes done in little.",
        "The guilt being great, the fear doth still exceed.",
        "As sunshine, broken in the rill, Though turned astray, is sunshine still.",
        "In the primitive church, such as by fear being compelled to sacrifice to strange gods, after repented, and kept still the office of preaching the gospel.",
        "And like the watchful minutes to the hour, Still and anon cheered up the heavy time.",
        "He having a full sway over the water, had power to still and compose it, as well as to move and disturb it.",
        "With his name the mothers still their babies.",
        "Toil that would, at least, have stilled an unquiet impulse in me."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. stille, AS. stille; akin to D. stil, OS. & OHG. stilli, G. still, Dan. stille, Sw. stilla, and to E. stall; from the idea of coming to a stand, or halt. Cf. Still, adv.]"
}