{
    "word": "Stretch",
    "definitions": [
        "To reach out; to extend; to put forth.",
        "To draw out to the full length; to cause to extend in a straight line; as, to stretch a cord or rope.",
        "To cause to extend in breadth; to spread; to expand; as, to stretch cloth; to stretch the wings.",
        "To make tense; to tighten; to distend forcibly.",
        "To draw or pull out to greater length; to strain; as, to stretch a tendon or muscle.",
        "To exaggerate; to extend too far; as, to stretch the truth; to stretch one's credit.",
        "To be extended; to be drawn out in length or in breadth, or both; to spread; to reach; as, the iron road stretches across the continent; the lake stretches over fifty square miles.",
        "To extend or spread one's self, or one's limbs; as, the lazy man yawns and stretches.",
        "To be extended, or to bear extension, without breaking, as elastic or ductile substances.",
        "To strain the truth; to exaggerate; as, a man apt to stretch in his report of facts.",
        "To sail by the wind under press of canvas; as, the ship stretched to the eastward.",
        "Act of stretching, or state of being stretched; reach; effort; struggle; strain; as, a stretch of the limbs; a stretch of the imagination.",
        "A continuous line or surface; a continuous space of time; as, grassy stretches of land.",
        "The extent to which anything may be stretched.",
        "The reach or extent of a vessel's progress on one tack; a tack or board.",
        "Course; direction; as, the stretch of seams of coal."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "And stretch forth his neck long and small.",
        "I in conquest stretched mine arm.",
        "The ox hath therefore stretched his yoke in vain.",
        "Awake, my soul, stretch every nerve.",
        "They take up, one day, the most violent and stretched prerogative.",
        "As far as stretcheth any ground.",
        "The inner membrane . . . because it would stretch and yield, remained umbroken.",
        "By stretch of arms the distant shore to gain.",
        "Those put a lawful authority upon the stretch, to the abuse of yower, under the color of prerogative.",
        "A great stretch of cultivated country.",
        "But all of them left me a week at a stretch.",
        "Quotations, in their utmost stretch, can signify no more than that Luther lay under severe agonies of mind.",
        "This is the utmost stretch that nature can."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. strecchen, AS. streccan; akin to D. strekken, G. strecken, OHG. strecchen, Sw. str, Dan. straekke; cf. AS. straeck, strec, strong, violent, G. strack straight; of uncertain origin, perhaps akin to E. strong. Cf. Straight.]"
}