{
    "word": "Strike",
    "definitions": [
        "To touch or hit with some force, either with the hand or with an instrument; to smite; to give a blow to, either with the hand or with any instrument or missile.",
        "To come in collision with; to strike against; as, a bullet struck him; the wave struck the boat amidships; the ship struck a reef.",
        "To give, as a blow; to impel, as with a blow; to give a force to; to dash; to cast.",
        "To stamp or impress with a stroke; to coin; as, to strike coin from metal: to strike dollars at the mint.",
        "To thrust in; to cause to enter or penetrate; to set in the earth; as, a tree strikes its roots deep.",
        "To punish; to afflict; to smite.",
        "To cause to sound by one or more beats; to indicate or notify by audible strokes; as, the clock strikes twelve; the drums strike up a march.",
        "To lower; to let or take down; to remove; as, to strike sail; to strike a flag or an ensign, as in token of surrender; to strike a yard or a topmast in a gale; to strike a tent; to strike the centering of an arch.",
        "To make a sudden impression upon, as by a blow; to affect sensibly with some strong emotion; as, to strike the mind, with surprise; to strike one with wonder, alarm, dread, or horror.",
        "To affect in some particular manner by a sudden impression or impulse; as, the plan proposed strikes me favorably; to strike one dead or blind.",
        "To cause or produce by a stroke, or suddenly, as by a stroke; as, to strike a light.",
        "To cause to ignite; as, to strike a match.",
        "To make and ratify; as, to strike a bargain.",
        "To take forcibly or fraudulently; as, to strike money.",
        "To level, as a measure of grain, salt, or the like, by scraping off with a straight instrument what is above the level of the top.",
        "To cut off, as a mortar joint, even with the face of the wall, or inward at a slight angle.",
        "To hit upon, or light upon, suddenly; as, my eye struck a strange word; they soon struck the trail.",
        "To borrow money of; to make a demand upon; as, he struck a friend for five dollars.",
        "To lade into a cooler, as a liquor.",
        "To stroke or pass lightly; to wave.",
        "To advance; to cause to go forward; -- used only in past participle.",
        "To move; to advance; to proceed; to take a course; as, to strike into the fields.",
        "To deliver a quick blow or thrust; to give blows.",
        "To hit; to collide; to dush; to clash; as, a hammer strikes against the bell of a clock.",
        "To sound by percussion, with blows, or as with blows; to be struck; as, the clock strikes.",
        "To make an attack; to aim a blow.",
        "To touch; to act by appulse.",
        "To run upon a rock or bank; to be stranded; as, the ship struck in the night.",
        "To pass with a quick or strong effect; to dart; to penetrate.",
        "To break forth; to commence suddenly; -- with into; as, to strike into reputation; to strike into a run.",
        "To lower a flag, or colors, in token of respect, or to signify a surrender of a ship to an enemy.",
        "To quit work in order to compel an increase, or prevent a reduction, of wages.",
        "To become attached to something; -- said of the spat of oysters.",
        "To steal money.",
        "The act of striking.",
        "An instrument with a straight edge for leveling a measure of grain, salt, and the like, scraping off what is above the level of the top; a strickle.",
        "A bushel; four pecks.",
        "An old measure of four bushels.",
        "Fullness of measure; hence, excellence of quality.",
        "An iron pale or standard in a gate or fence.",
        "The act of quitting work; specifically, such an act by a body of workmen, usually organized by a labor union, done as a means of enforcing compliance with demands made on their employer.",
        "A puddler's stirrer.",
        "The horizontal direction of the outcropping edges of tilted rocks; or, the direction of a horizontal line supposed to be drawn on the surface of a tilted stratum. It is at right angles to the dip.",
        "The extortion of money, or the attempt to extort money, by threat of injury; blackmailing.",
        "A sudden finding of rich ore in mining; hence, any sudden success or good fortune, esp. financial.",
        "The act of leveling all the pins with the first bowl; also, the score thus made. Sometimes called double spare. Throwing a strike entitles the player to add to the score for that frame the total number of pins knocked down in the next two bowls.",
        "Any actual or constructive striking at the pitched ball, three of which, if the ball is not hit fairly, cause the batter to be put out; hence, any of various acts or events which are ruled as equivalent to such a striking, as failing to strike at a ball so pitched that the batter should have struck at it.",
        "Same as Ten-strike."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "He at Philippi kept His sword e'en like a dancer; while I struck The lean and wrinkled Cassius.",
        "They shall take of the blood, and strike it on the two sideposts.",
        "Who would be free, themselves must strike the blow.",
        "To punish the just is not good, nor strike princes for equity.",
        "Nice works of art strike and surprise us most on the first view.",
        "They please as beauties, here as wonders strike.",
        "How often has stricken you dumb with his irony!",
        "Waving wide her myrtle wand, She strikes a universal peace through sea and land.",
        "Behold, I thought, He will . . . strike his hand over the place, and recover the leper.",
        "A mouse . . . struck forth sternly [bodily].",
        "And fiercely took his trenchant blade in hand, With which he stroke so furious and so fell.",
        "Strike now, or else the iron cools.",
        "A deep sound strikes like a rising knell.",
        "A puny subject strikes At thy great glory.",
        "Struck for throne, and striking found his doom.",
        "Hinder light but from striking on it [porphyry], and its colors vanish.",
        "Till a dart strike through his liver.",
        "Now and then a glittering beam of wit or passion strikes through the obscurity of the poem.",
        "That the English ships of war should not strike in the Danish seas.",
        "Three hogsheads of ale of the first strike.",
        "Strikes are the insurrections of labor."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. striken to strike, proceed, flow, AS. str to go, proceed, akin to D. strijken to rub, stroke, strike, to move, go, G. streichen, OHG. str, L. stringere to touch lightly, to graze, to strip off (but perhaps not to L. stringere in sense to draw tight), striga a row, a furrow. Cf. Streak, Stroke.]"
}