{
    "word": "Strong",
    "definitions": [
        "Having active physical power, or great physical power to act; having a power of exerting great bodily force; vigorous.",
        "Having passive physical power; having ability to bear or endure; firm; hale; sound; robust; as, a strong constitution; strong health.",
        "Solid; tough; not easily broken or injured; able to withstand violence; able to sustain attacks; not easily subdued or taken; as, a strong beam; a strong rock; a strong fortress or town.",
        "Having great military or naval force; powerful; as, a strong army or fleet; a nation strong at sea.",
        "Having great wealth, means, or resources; as, a strong house, or company of merchants.",
        "Reaching a certain degree or limit in respect to strength or numbers; as, an army ten thousand strong.",
        "Moving with rapidity or force; violent; forcible; impetuous; as, a strong current of water or wind; the wind was strong from the northeast; a strong tide.",
        "Adapted to make a deep or effectual impression on the mind or imagination; striking or superior of the kind; powerful; forcible; cogent; as, a strong argument; strong reasons; strong evidence; a strong example; strong language.",
        "Ardent; eager; zealous; earnestly engaged; as, a strong partisan; a strong Whig or Tory.",
        "Having virtues of great efficacy; or, having a particular quality in a great degree; as, a strong powder or tincture; a strong decoction; strong tea or coffee.",
        "Full of spirit; containing a large proportion of alcohol; intoxicating; as, strong liquors.",
        "Affecting any sense powerfully; as, strong light, colors, etc.; a strong flavor of onions; a strong scent.",
        "Solid; nourishing; as, strong meat.",
        "Well established; firm; not easily overthrown or altered; as, a strong custom; a strong belief.",
        "Violent; vehement; earnest; ardent.",
        "Having great force, vigor, power, or the like, as the mind, intellect, or any faculty; as, a man of a strong mind, memory, judgment, or imagination.",
        "Vigorous; effective; forcible; powerful.",
        "Tending to higher prices; rising; as, a strong market.",
        "Pertaining to, or designating, a verb which forms its preterit (imperfect) by a variation in the root vowel, and the past participle (usually) by the addition of -en (with or without a change of the root vowel); as in the verbs strive, strove, striven; break, broke, broken; drink, drank, drunk. Opposed to weak, or regular. See Weak.",
        "Applied to forms in Anglo-Saxon, etc., which retain the old declensional endings. In the Teutonic languages the vowel stems have held the original endings most firmly, and are called strong; the stems in -n are called weak other constant stems conform, or are irregular."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "That our oxen may be strong to labor.",
        "Orses the strong to greater strength must yield.",
        "Her mother, ever strong against that match.",
        "He had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears.",
        "I was stronger in prophecy than in criticism.",
        "Like her sweet voice is thy harmonious song, As high, as sweet, as easy, and as strong."
    ],
    "etymology": "[AS. strang, strong; akin to D. & G. streng strict, rigorous, OHG. strengi strong, brave, harsh, Icel. strangr strong, severe, Dan. streng, Sw. str strict, severe. Cf. Strength, Stretch, String.]"
}