{
    "word": "Study",
    "definitions": [
        "A setting of the mind or thoughts upon a subject; hence, application of mind to books, arts, or science, or to any subject, for the purpose of acquiring knowledge.",
        "Mental occupation; absorbed or thoughtful attention; meditation; contemplation.",
        "Any particular branch of learning that is studied; any object of attentive consideration.",
        "A building or apartment devoted to study or to literary work.",
        "A representation or rendering of any object or scene intended, not for exhibition as an original work of art, but for the information, instruction, or assistance of the maker; as, a study of heads or of hands for a figure picture.",
        "A piece for special practice. See Etude.",
        "To fix the mind closely upon a subject; to dwell upon anything in thought; to muse; to ponder.",
        "To apply the mind to books or learning.",
        "To endeavor diligently; to be zealous.",
        "To apply the mind to; to read and examine for the purpose of learning and understanding; as, to study law or theology; to study languages.",
        "To consider attentively; to examine closely; as, to study the work of nature.",
        "To form or arrange by previous thought; to con over, as in committing to memory; as, to study a speech.",
        "To make an object of study; to aim at sedulously; to devote one's thoughts to; as, to study the welfare of others; to study variety in composition."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Hammond . . . spent thirteen hours of the day in study.",
        "Study gives strength to the mind; conversation, grace.",
        "Just men they seemed, and all their study bent To worship God aright, and know his works.",
        "The Holy Scriptures, especially the New Testament, are her daily study.",
        "The proper study of mankind is man.",
        "I found a moral first, and then studied for a fable.",
        "Study thyself; what rank or what degree The wise Creator has ordained for thee.",
        "For their heart studieth destruction."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. studie, L. studium, akin to studere to study; possibly akin to Gr. estudie, estude, F. . Cf. Etude, Student, Studio, Study, v. i.]"
}