{
    "word": "Stuff",
    "definitions": [
        "Material which is to be worked up in any process of manufacture.",
        "The fundamental material of which anything is made up; elemental part; essence.",
        "Woven material not made into garments; fabric of any kind; specifically, any one of various fabrics of wool or worsted; sometimes, worsted fiber.",
        "Furniture; goods; domestic vessels or utensils.",
        "A medicine or mixture; a potion.",
        "Refuse or worthless matter; hence, also, foolish or irrational language; nonsense; trash.",
        "A melted mass of turpentine, tallow, etc., with which the masts, sides, and bottom of a ship are smeared for lubrication.",
        "Paper stock ground ready for use.",
        "To fill by crowding something into; to cram with something; to load to excess; as, to stuff a bedtick.",
        "To thrust or crowd; to press; to pack.",
        "To fill by being pressed or packed into.",
        "To fill with a seasoning composition of bread, meat, condiments, etc.; as, to stuff a turkey.",
        "To obstruct, as any of the organs; to affect with some obstruction in the organs of sense or respiration.",
        "To fill the skin of, for the purpose of preserving as a specimen; -- said of birds or other animals.",
        "To form or fashion by packing with the necessary material.",
        "To crowd with facts; to cram the mind of; sometimes, to crowd or fill with false or idle tales or fancies.",
        "To put fraudulent votes into (a ballot box).",
        "To feed gluttonously; to cram."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "For the stuff they had was sufficient for all the work to make it, and too much.",
        "Ambitions should be made of sterner stuff.",
        "The workman on his stuff his skill doth show, And yet the stuff gives not the man his skill.",
        "Yet do I hold it very stuff o' the conscience To do no contrived murder.",
        "What stuff wilt have a kirtle of?",
        "It [the arras] was of stuff and silk mixed, though, superior kinds were of silk exclusively.",
        "He took away locks, and gave away the king's stuff.",
        "Anger would indite Such woeful stuff as I or Shadwell write.",
        "Sometimes this crook drew hazel bought adown, And stuffed her apron wide with nuts so brown.",
        "Lest the gods, for sin, Should with a swelling dropsy stuff thy skin.",
        "Put roses into a glass with a narrow mouth, stuffing them close together . . . and they retain smell and color.",
        "With inward arms the dire machine they load, And iron bowels stuff the dark abode.",
        "I'm stuffed, cousin; I can not smell.",
        "An Eastern king put a judge to death for an iniquitous sentence, and ordered his hide to be stuffed into a cushion, and placed upon the tribunal.",
        "Taught harmless man to cram and stuff."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OF. estoffe, F. ; of uncertain origin, perhaps of Teutonic origin and akin to E. stop, v.t. Cf. Stuff, v. t.]"
}