{
    "word": "Style",
    "definitions": [
        "An instrument used by the ancients in writing on tablets covered with wax, having one of its ends sharp, and the other blunt, and somewhat expanded, for the purpose of making erasures by smoothing the wax.",
        "Hence, anything resembling the ancient style in shape or use.",
        "A pen; an author's pen.",
        "A sharp-pointed tool used in engraving; a graver.",
        "A kind of blunt-pointed surgical instrument.",
        "A long, slender, bristlelike process, as the anal styles of insects.",
        "The pin, or gnomon, of a dial, the shadow of which indicates the hour. See Gnomon.",
        "The elongated part of a pistil between the ovary and the stigma. See Illust. of Stamen, and of Pistil.",
        "Mode of expressing thought in language, whether oral or written; especially, such use of language in the expression of thought as exhibits the spirit and faculty of an artist; choice or arrangement of words in discourse; rhetorical expression.",
        "Mode of presentation, especially in music or any of the fine arts; a characteristic of peculiar mode of developing in idea or accomplishing a result.",
        "Conformity to a recognized standard; manner which is deemed elegant and appropriate, especially in social demeanor; fashion.",
        "Mode or phrase by which anything is formally designated; the title; the official designation of any important body; mode of address; as, the style of Majesty.",
        "A mode of reckoning time, with regard to the Julian and Gregorian calendars.",
        "To entitle; to term, name, or call; to denominate."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "High style, as when that men to kinges write.",
        "Style is the dress of thoughts.",
        "Proper words in proper places make the true definition of style.",
        "It is style alone by which posterity will judge of a great work.",
        "The ornamental style also possesses its own peculiar merit.",
        "According to the usual style of dedications.",
        "One style to a gracious benefactor, another to a proud, insulting foe.",
        "How well his worth and brave adventures styled."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. stile, F. style, Of. also stile, L. stilus a style or writing instrument, manner or writing, mode of expression; probably for stiglus, meaning, a pricking instrument, and akin to E. stick. See Stick, v. t., and cf. Stiletto. The spelling with y is due to a supposed connection with Gr. sty^los a pillar.]"
}