{
    "word": "Subject",
    "definitions": [
        "Placed or situated under; lying below, or in a lower situation.",
        "Placed under the power of another; specifically (International Law), owing allegiance to a particular sovereign or state; as, Jamaica is subject to Great Britain.",
        "Exposed; liable; prone; disposed; as, a country subject to extreme heat; men subject to temptation.",
        "Obedient; submissive.",
        "That which is placed under the authority, dominion, control, or influence of something else.",
        "Specifically: One who is under the authority of a ruler and is governed by his laws; one who owes allegiance to a sovereign or a sovereign state; as, a subject of Queen Victoria; a British subject; a subject of the United States.",
        "That which is subjected, or submitted to, any physical operation or process; specifically (Anat.), a dead body used for the purpose of dissection.",
        "That which is brought under thought or examination; that which is taken up for discussion, or concerning which anything is said or done.",
        "The person who is treated of; the hero of a piece; the chief character.",
        "That of which anything is affirmed or predicated; the theme of a proposition or discourse; that which is spoken of; as, the nominative case is the subject of the verb.",
        "That in which any quality, attribute, or relation, whether spiritual or material, inheres, or to which any of these appertain; substance; substratum.",
        "Hence, that substance or being which is conscious of its own operations; the mind; the thinking agent or principal; the ego. Cf. Object, n., 2.",
        "The principal theme, or leading thought or phrase, on which a composition or a movement is based.",
        "The incident, scene, figure, group, etc., which it is the aim of the artist to represent.",
        "To bring under control, power, or dominion; to make subject; to subordinate; to subdue.",
        "To expose; to make obnoxious or liable; as, credulity subjects a person to impositions.",
        "To submit; to make accountable.",
        "To make subservient.",
        "To cause to undergo; as, to subject a substance to a white heat; to subject a person to a rigid test."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Esau was never subject to Jacob.",
        "All human things are subject to decay.",
        "Put them in mind to be subject to principalities.",
        "Was never subject longed to be a king, As I do long and wish to be a subject.",
        "The subject must obey his prince, because God commands it, human laws require it.",
        "Make choice of a subject, beautiful and noble, which . . . shall afford an ample field of matter wherein to expatiate.",
        "The unhappy subject of these quarrels.",
        "Writers of particular lives . . . are apt to be prejudiced in favor of their subject.",
        "The subject of a proposition is that concerning which anything is affirmed or denied.",
        "That which manifests its qualities -- in other words, that in which the appearing causes inhere, that to which they belong -- is called their subject or substance, or substratum.",
        "The philosophers of mind have, in a manner, usurped and appropriated this expression to themselves. Accordingly, in their hands, the phrases conscious or thinking subject, and subject, mean precisely the same thing.",
        "The earliest known form of subject is the ecclesiastical cantus firmus, or plain song.",
        "Firmness of mind that subjects every gratification of sense to the rule of right reason.",
        "In one short view subjected to our eye, Gods, emperors, heroes, sages, beauties, lie.",
        "He is the most subjected, the most Locke. [1913 Webster]",
        "God is not bound to subject his ways of operation to the scrutiny of our thoughts.",
        "Subjected to his service angel wings."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. suget, OF. souzget, sougit (in which the first part is L. subtus below, fr. sub under), subgiet, subject, F. sujet, from L. subjectus lying under, subjected, p. p. of subjicere, subicere, to throw, lay, place, or bring under; sub under + jacere to throw. See Jet a shooting forth.]"
}