{
    "word": "Sublime",
    "definitions": [
        "Lifted up; high in place; exalted aloft; uplifted; lofty.",
        "Distinguished by lofty or noble traits; eminent; -- said of persons.",
        "Awakening or expressing the emotion of awe, adoration, veneration, heroic resolve, etc.; dignified; grand; solemn; stately; -- said of an impressive object in nature, of an action, of a discourse, of a work of art, of a spectacle, etc.; as, sublime scenery; a sublime deed.",
        "Elevated by joy; elate.",
        "Lofty of mien; haughty; proud.",
        "That which is sublime; -- with the definite article",
        "A grand or lofty style in speaking or writing; a style that expresses lofty conceptions.",
        "That which is grand in nature or art, as distinguished from the merely beautiful.",
        "To raise on high.",
        "To subject to the process of sublimation; to heat, volatilize, and condense in crystals or powder; to distill off, and condense in solid form; hence, also, to purify.",
        "To exalt; to heighten; to improve; to purify.",
        "To dignify; to ennoble.",
        "To pass off in vapor, with immediate condensation; specifically, to evaporate or volatilize from the solid state without apparent melting; -- said of those substances, like arsenic, benzoic acid, etc., which do not exhibit a liquid form on heating, except under increased pressure."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Sublime on these a tower of steel is reared.",
        "Easy in words thy style, in sense sublime.",
        "Know how sublime a thing it is To suffer and be strong.",
        "Their hearts were jocund and sublime, Drunk with idolatry, drunk with wine.",
        "His fair, large front and eye sublime declared Absolute rule.",
        "The sublime rises from the nobleness of thoughts, the magnificence of words, or the harmonious and lively turn of the phrase.",
        "A soul sublimed by an idea above the region of vanity and conceit.",
        "The sun . . . Which not alone the southern wit sublimes, But ripens spirits in cold, northern climes.",
        "An ordinary gift can not sublime a person to a supernatural employment."
    ],
    "etymology": "[L. sublimis; sub under + (perhaps) a word akin to limen lintel, sill, thus meaning, up to the lintel: cf. F. sublime. Cf. Eliminate.]"
}