{
    "word": "Swallow",
    "definitions": [
        "Any one of numerous species of passerine birds of the family Hirundinidae, especially one of those species in which the tail is deeply forked. They have long, pointed wings, and are noted for the swiftness and gracefulness of their flight.",
        "Any one of numerous species of swifts which resemble the true swallows in form and habits, as the common American chimney swallow, or swift.",
        "The aperture in a block through which the rope reeves.",
        "To take into the stomach; to receive through the gullet, or esophagus, into the stomach; as, to swallow food or drink.",
        "To draw into an abyss or gulf; to ingulf; to absorb -- usually followed by up.",
        "To receive or embrace, as opinions or belief, without examination or scruple; to receive implicitly.",
        "To engross; to appropriate; -- usually with up.",
        "To occupy; to take up; to employ.",
        "To seize and waste; to exhaust; to consume.",
        "To retract; to recant; as, to swallow one's opinions.",
        "To put up with; to bear patiently or without retaliation; as, to swallow an affront or insult.",
        "To perform the act of swallowing; as, his cold is so severe he is unable to swallow.",
        "The act of swallowing.",
        "The gullet, or esophagus; the throat.",
        "Taste; relish; inclination; liking.",
        "Capacity for swallowing; voracity.",
        "As much as is, or can be, swallowed at once; as, a swallow of water.",
        "That which ingulfs; a whirlpool."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "As if I had swallowed snowballs for pills.",
        "The earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up, and their houses.",
        "Though that story . . . be not so readily swallowed.",
        "Homer excels . . . in this, that he swallowed up the honor of those who succeeded him.",
        "The necessary provision of the life swallows the greatest part of their time.",
        "Corruption swallowed what the liberal hand Of bounty scattered.",
        "I have no swallow for it.",
        "There being nothing too gross for the swallow of political rancor."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. swalowe, AS. swalewe, swealwe; akin to D. zwaluw, OHG. swalawa, G. schwalbe, Icel. & Sw. svala, Dan. svale.]"
}