{
    "word": "Taste",
    "definitions": [
        "To try by the touch of the tongue; to perceive the relish or flavor of (anything) by taking a small quantity into a mouth. Also used figuratively.",
        "To try by eating a little; to eat a small quantity of.",
        "To become acquainted with by actual trial; to essay; to experience; to undergo.",
        "To partake of; to participate in; -- usually with an implied sense of relish or pleasure.",
        "To try food with the mouth; to eat or drink a little only; to try the flavor of anything; as, to taste of each kind of wine.",
        "To have a smack; to excite a particular sensation, by which the specific quality or flavor is distinguished; to have a particular quality or character; as, this water tastes brackish; the milk tastes of garlic.",
        "To take sparingly.",
        "To have perception, experience, or enjoyment; to partake; as, to taste of nature's bounty.",
        "The act of tasting; gustation.",
        "A particular sensation excited by the application of a substance to the tongue; the quality or savor of any substance as perceived by means of the tongue; flavor; as, the taste of an orange or an apple; a bitter taste; an acid taste; a sweet taste.",
        "The one of the five senses by which certain properties of bodies (called their taste, savor, flavor) are ascertained by contact with the organs of taste.",
        "Intellectual relish; liking; fondness; -- formerly with of, now with for; as, he had no taste for study.",
        "The power of perceiving and relishing excellence in human performances; the faculty of discerning beauty, order, congruity, proportion, symmetry, or whatever constitutes excellence, particularly in the fine arts and belles-letters; critical judgment; discernment.",
        "Manner, with respect to what is pleasing, refined, or in accordance with good usage; style; as, music composed in good taste; an epitaph in bad taste.",
        "Essay; trial; experience; experiment.",
        "A small portion given as a specimen; a little piece tasted or eaten; a bit.",
        "A kind of narrow and thin silk ribbon."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Taste it well and stone thou shalt it find.",
        "When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine.",
        "When Commodus had once tasted human blood, he became incapable of pity or remorse.",
        "I tasted a little of this honey.",
        "He . . . should taste death for every man.",
        "Thou . . . wilt taste No pleasure, though in pleasure, solitary.",
        "Yea, every idle, nice, and wanton reason Shall to the king taste of this action.",
        "For age but tastes of pleasures, youth devours.",
        "The valiant never taste of death but once.",
        "I have no taste Of popular applause.",
        "What, then, is taste, but those internal powers, Active and strong, and feelingly alive To each fine impulse? a discerning sense Of decent and sublime, with quick disgust From things deformed, or disarranged, or gross In species? This, nor gems, nor stores of gold, Nor purple state, nor culture, can bestow, But God alone, when first his active hand Imprints the secret bias of the soul."
    ],
    "etymology": null
}