{
    "word": "That",
    "definitions": [
        "As a demonstrative pronoun (pl. Those), that usually points out, or refers to, a person or thing previously mentioned, or supposed to be understood. That, as a demonstrative, may precede the noun to which it refers; as, that which he has said is true; those in the basket are good apples.",
        "As an adjective, that has the same demonstrative force as the pronoun, but is followed by a noun.",
        "As a relative pronoun, that is equivalent to who or which, serving to point out, and make definite, a person or thing spoken of, or alluded to, before, and may be either singular or plural.",
        "As a conjunction, that retains much of its force as a demonstrative pronoun.",
        "To introduce a clause employed as the object of the preceding verb, or as the subject or predicate nominative of a verb.",
        "To introduce, a reason or cause; -- equivalent to for that, in that, for the reason that, because.",
        "To introduce a purpose; -- usually followed by may, or might, and frequently preceded by so, in order, to the end, etc.",
        "To introduce a consequence, result, or effect; -- usually preceded by so or such, sometimes by that.",
        "In an elliptical sentence to introduce a dependent sentence expressing a wish, or a cause of surprise, indignation, or the like.",
        "As adverb: To such a degree; so; as, he was that frightened he could say nothing."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The early fame of Gratian was equal to that of the most celebrated princes.",
        "That be far from thee, to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the wicked.",
        "And when Moses heard that, he was content.",
        "I will know your business, Harry, that I will.",
        "Two principles in human nature reign; Self-love, to urge, and Reason, to restrain; Nor this a good, nor that a bad we call.",
        "If the Lord will, we shall live, and do this or that.",
        "It shall be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment, than for that city.",
        "The woman was made whole from that hour.",
        "Upon a day out riden knightes two . . . That one of them came home, that other not.",
        "He that reproveth a scorner getteth to himself shame.",
        "A judgment that is equal and impartial must incline to the greater probabilities.",
        "We speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen.",
        "That I have done it is thyself to wite [blame].",
        "The ship that somebody was sailing in.",
        "I saw to-day a corpse yborn to church That now on Monday last I saw him wirche [work].",
        "That that dieth, let it die; and that that is to cut off, let it be cut off.",
        "She tells them 't is a causeless fantasy, And childish error, that they are afraid.",
        "I have shewed before, that a mere possibility to the contrary, can by no means hinder a thing from being highly credible.",
        "He does hear me; And that he does, I weep.",
        "These things I say, that ye might be saved.",
        "To the end that he may prolong his days.",
        "The birds their notes renew, and bleating herds Attest their joy, that hill and valley rings.",
        "He gazed so long That both his eyes were dazzled.",
        "So wept Duessa until eventide, That shining lamps in Jove's high course were lit.",
        "Is not this the day That Hermia should give answer of her choice?",
        "Ha, cousin Silence, that thou hadst seen that that this knight and I have seen!",
        "O God, that right should thus overcome might!",
        "To try if that our own be ours or no.",
        "When he had carried Rome and that we looked For no less spoil than glory.",
        "With singing, laughing, ogling, and all that.",
        "The rank is but the guinea's stamp, The man's the gowd [gold] for a'that."
    ],
    "etymology": "[AS. , neuter nom. & acc. sing. of the article (originally a demonstrative pronoun). The nom. masc. s, and the nom. fem. se are from a different root. AS. is akin to D. dat, G. das, OHG. daz, Sw. & Dan. det, Icel. (masc. s, fem. s), Goth. (masc. sa, fem. s), Gr. tat (for tad, masc. sas, fem. s); cf. L. istud that. The, Their, They, Them, This, Than, Since.]"
}