{
    "word": "Tide",
    "definitions": [
        "Time; period; season.",
        "The alternate rising and falling of the waters of the ocean, and of bays, rivers, etc., connected therewith. The tide ebbs and flows twice in each lunar day, or the space of a little more than twenty-four hours. It is occasioned by the attraction of the sun and moon (the influence of the latter being three times that of the former), acting unequally on the waters in different parts of the earth, thus disturbing their equilibrium. A high tide upon one side of the earth is accompanied by a high tide upon the opposite side. Hence, when the sun and moon are in conjunction or opposition, as at new moon and full moon, their action is such as to produce a greater than the usual tide, called the spring tide, as represented in the cut. When the moon is in the first or third quarter, the sun's attraction in part counteracts the effect of the moon's attraction, thus producing under the moon a smaller tide than usual, called the neap tide.",
        "A stream; current; flood; as, a tide of blood.",
        "Tendency or direction of causes, influences, or events; course; current.",
        "Violent confluence.",
        "The period of twelve hours.",
        "To betide; to happen.",
        "To pour a tide or flood.",
        "To work into or out of a river or harbor by drifting with the tide and anchoring when it becomes adverse."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "And rest their weary limbs a tide.",
        "Which, at the appointed tide, Each one did make his bride.",
        "At the tide of Christ his birth.",
        "There is a tide in the affairs of men, Which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune.",
        "They are tided down the stream.",
        "What should us tide of this new law?"
    ],
    "etymology": "[AS. t time; akin to OS. & OFries. t, D. tijd, G. zeit, OHG. z, Icel. t, Sw. & Dan. tid, and probably to Skr. aditi unlimited, endless, where a- is a negative prefix. Tidings, Tidy, Till, prep., Time.]"
}