{
    "word": "Time",
    "definitions": [
        "Duration, considered independently of any system of measurement or any employment of terms which designate limited portions thereof.",
        "A particular period or part of duration, whether past, present, or future; a point or portion of duration; as, the time was, or has been; the time is, or will be.",
        "The period at which any definite event occurred, or person lived; age; period; era; as, the Spanish Armada was destroyed in the time of Queen Elizabeth; -- often in the plural; as, ancient times; modern times.",
        "The duration of one's life; the hours and days which a person has at his disposal.",
        "A proper time; a season; an opportunity.",
        "Hour of travail, delivery, or parturition.",
        "Performance or occurrence of an action or event, considered with reference to repetition; addition of a number to itself; repetition; as, to double cloth four times; four times four, or sixteen.",
        "The present life; existence in this world as contrasted with immortal life; definite, as contrasted with infinite, duration.",
        "Tense.",
        "The measured duration of sounds; measure; tempo; rate of movement; rhythmical division; as, common or triple time; the musician keeps good time.",
        "To regulate as to time; to accompany, or agree with, in time of movement.",
        "To ascertain or record the time, duration, or rate of; as, to time the speed of horses, or hours for workmen.",
        "To measure, as in music or harmony.",
        "To keep or beat time; to proceed or move in time.",
        "To pass time; to delay."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The time wasteth [i. e. passes away] night and day.",
        "I know of no ideas . . . that have a better claim to be accounted simple and original than those of space and time.",
        "God, who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets.",
        "Believe me, your time is not your own; it belongs to God, to religion, to mankind.",
        "There is . . . a time to every purpose.",
        "The time of figs was not yet.",
        "She was within one month of her time.",
        "Summers three times eight save one.",
        "Till time and sin together cease.",
        "Some few lines set unto a solemn time.",
        "There is no greater wisdom than well to time the beginnings and onsets of things.",
        "Who overlooked the oars, and timed the stroke.",
        "He was a thing of blood, whose every motion Was timed with dying cries.",
        "With oar strokes timing to their song."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. time, AS. t, akin to t time, and to Icel. t, Dan. time an hour, Sw. timme. Tide, n.]"
}