{
    "word": "Tone",
    "definitions": [
        "Accent, or inflection or modulation of the voice, as adapted to express emotion or passion.",
        "A whining style of speaking; a kind of mournful or artificial strain of voice; an affected speaking with a measured rhythm ahd a regular rise and fall of the voice; as, children often read with a tone.",
        "A sound considered as to pitch; as, the seven tones of the octave; she has good high tones.",
        "The larger kind of interval between contiguous sounds in the diatonic scale, the smaller being called a semitone as, a whole tone too flat; raise it a tone.",
        "The peculiar quality of sound in any voice or instrument; as, a rich tone, a reedy tone.",
        "A mode or tune or plain chant; as, the Gregorian tones.",
        "That state of a body, or of any of its organs or parts, in which the animal functions are healthy and performed with due vigor.",
        "Tonicity; as, arterial tone.",
        "State of mind; temper; mood.",
        "Tenor; character; spirit; drift; as, the tone of his remarks was commendatory.",
        "General or prevailing character or style, as of morals, manners, or sentiment, in reference to a scale of high and low; as, a low tone of morals; a tone of elevated sentiment; a courtly tone of manners.",
        "The general effect of a picture produced by the combination of light and shade, together with color in the case of a painting; -- commonly used in a favorable sense; as, this picture has tone.",
        "Quality, with respect to attendant feeling; the more or less variable complex of emotion accompanying and characterizing a sensation or a conceptual state; as, feeling tone; color tone.",
        "Color quality proper; -- called also hue. Also, a gradation of color, either a hue, or a tint or shade.",
        "The condition of normal balance of a healthy plant in its relations to light, heat, and moisture.",
        "To utter with an affected tone.",
        "To give tone, or a particular tone, to; to tune. See Tune, v. t.",
        "To bring, as a print, to a certain required shade of color, as by chemical treatment."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "[Harmony divine] smooths her charming tones.",
        "Tones that with seraph hymns might blend.",
        "Eager his tone, and ardent were his eyes.",
        "The strange situation I am in and the melancholy state of public affairs, . . . drag the mind down . . . from a philosophical tone or temper, to the drudgery of private and public business.",
        "Their tone was dissatisfied, almost menacing.",
        "She was dressed in a soft cloth of a gray tone.",
        "Its thousand hues toned down harmoniusly.",
        "The best method for the purpose in hand was to employ some one of a character and position suited to get possession of their confidence, and then use it to tone down their religious strictures."
    ],
    "etymology": null
}