{
    "word": "Top",
    "definitions": [
        "A child's toy, commonly in the form of a conoid or pear, made to spin on its point, usually by drawing off a string wound round its surface or stem, the motion being sometimes continued by means of a whip.",
        "A plug, or conical block of wood, with longitudital grooves on its surface, in which the strands of the rope slide in the process of twisting.",
        "The highest part of anything; the upper end, edge, or extremity; the upper side or surface; summit; apex; vertex; cover; lid; as, the top of a spire; the top of a house; the top of a mountain; the top of the ground.",
        "The utmost degree; the acme; the summit.",
        "The highest rank; the most honorable position; the utmost attainable place; as, to be at the top of one's class, or at the top of the school.",
        "The chief person; the most prominent one.",
        "The crown of the head, or the hair upon it; the head.",
        "The head, or upper part, of a plant.",
        "A platform surrounding the head of the lower mast and projecting on all sudes. It serves to spead the topmast rigging, thus strengheningthe mast, and also furnishes a convenient standing place for the men aloft.",
        "A bundle or ball of slivers of comkbed wool, from which the noils, or dust, have been taken out.",
        "Eve; verge; point.",
        "The part of a cut gem between the girdle, or circumference, and the table, or flat upper surface.",
        "Top-boots.",
        "A stroke on the top of the ball.",
        "A forward spin given to the ball by hitting it on or near the top.",
        "To rise aloft; to be eminent; to tower; as, lofty ridges and topping mountains.",
        "To predominate; as, topping passions.",
        "To excel; to rise above others.",
        "To strike a ball above the center.",
        "To rise at one end, as a yard; -- usually with up.",
        "To cover on the top; to tip; to cap; -- chiefly used in the past participle.",
        "To rise above; to excel; to outgo; to surpass.",
        "To rise to the top of; to go over the top of.",
        "To take off the or upper part of; to crop.",
        "To perform eminently, or better than before.",
        "To raise one end of, as a yard, so that that end becomes higher than the other.",
        "To cover with another dye; as, to top aniline black with methyl violet to prevent greening and crocking.",
        "To put a stiffening piece or back on (a saw blade).",
        "To arrange, as fruit, with the best on top.",
        "To strike the top of, as a wall, with the hind feet, in jumping, so as to gain new impetus; -- said of a horse.",
        "To improve (domestic animals, esp. sheep) by crossing certain individuals or breeds with other superior.",
        "To raise one end of, as a yard, so that that end becomes higher than the other.",
        "To cut, break, or otherwise take off the top of (a steel ingot) to remove unsound metal.",
        "To strike (the ball) above the center; also, to make (as a stroke) by hitting the ball in this way."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The star that bids the shepherd fold, Now the top of heaven doth hold.",
        "The top of my ambition is to contribute to that work.",
        "And wears upon his baby brow the round And top of sovereignty.",
        "Other . . . aspired to be the top of zealots.",
        "All the stored vengeance of Heaven fall On her ungrateful top !",
        "The buds . . . are called heads, or tops, as cabbageheads.",
        "But write thy, and top.",
        "Like moving mountains topped with snow.",
        "A mount Of alabaster, topped with golden spires.",
        "Topping all others in boasting.",
        "Edmund the base shall top the legitimate.",
        "But wind about till thou hast topped the hill.",
        "Top your rose trees a little with your knife.",
        "From endeavoring universally to top their parts, they will go universally beyond them."
    ],
    "etymology": "[CF. OD. dop, top, OHG., MNG., & dial. G. topf; perhaps akin to G. topf a pot.]"
}