{
    "word": "Touch",
    "definitions": [
        "To come in contact with; to hit or strike lightly against; to extend the hand, foot, or the like, so as to reach or rest on.",
        "To perceive by the sense of feeling.",
        "To come to; to reach; to attain to.",
        "To try; to prove, as with a touchstone.",
        "To relate to; to concern; to affect.",
        "To handle, speak of, or deal with; to treat of.",
        "To meddle or interfere with; as, I have not touched the books.",
        "To affect the senses or the sensibility of; to move; to melt; to soften; especially, to cause feelings of pity, compassion, sympathy, or gratitude in.",
        "To mark or delineate with touches; to add a slight stroke to with the pencil or brush.",
        "To infect; to affect slightly.",
        "To make an impression on; to have effect upon.",
        "To strike; to manipulate; to play on; as, to touch an instrument of music.",
        "To perform, as a tune; to play.",
        "To influence by impulse; to impel forcibly.",
        "To harm, afflict, or distress.",
        "To affect with insanity, especially in a slight degree; to make partially insane; -- rarely used except in the past participle.",
        "To be tangent to. See Tangent, a.",
        "To lay a hand upon for curing disease.",
        "To compare with; to be equal to; -- usually with a negative; as, he held that for good cheer nothing could touch an open fire.",
        "To induce to give or lend; to borrow from; as, to touch one for a loan; hence, to steal from.",
        "To be in contact; to be in a state of junction, so that no space is between; as, two spheres touch only at points.",
        "To fasten; to take effect; to make impression.",
        "To treat anything in discourse, especially in a slight or casual manner; -- often with on or upon.",
        "To be brought, as a sail, so close to the wind that its weather leech shakes.",
        "The act of touching, or the state of being touched; contact.",
        "The sense by which pressure or traction exerted on the skin is recognized; the sense by which the properties of bodies are determined by contact; the tactile sense. See Tactile sense, under Tactile.",
        "Act or power of exciting emotion.",
        "An emotion or affection.",
        "Personal reference or application.",
        "A stroke; as, a touch of raillery; a satiric touch; hence, animadversion; censure; reproof.",
        "A single stroke on a drawing or a picture.",
        "Feature; lineament; trait.",
        "The act of the hand on a musical instrument; bence, in the plural, musical notes.",
        "A small quantity intermixed; a little; a dash.",
        "A hint; a suggestion; slight notice.",
        "A slight and brief essay.",
        "A touchstone; hence, stone of the sort used for touchstone.",
        "Hence, examination or trial by some decisive standard; test; proof; tried quality.",
        "The particular or characteristic mode of action, or the resistance of the keys of an instrument to the fingers; as, a heavy touch, or a light touch; also, the manner of touching, striking, or pressing the keys of a piano; as, a legato touch; a staccato touch.",
        "The broadest part of a plank worked top and but (see Top and but, under Top, n.), or of one worked anchor-stock fashion (that is, tapered from the middle to both ends); also, the angles of the stern timbers at the counters.",
        "That part of the field which is beyond the line of flags on either side.",
        "A boys' game; tag.",
        "A set of changes less than the total possible on seven bells, that is, less than 5,040.",
        "An act of borrowing or stealing.",
        "Tallow; -- a plumber's term."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Him thus intent Ithuriel with his spear Touched lightly.",
        "Nothing but body can be touched or touch.",
        "The god, vindictive, doomed them never more- Ah, men unblessed! -- to touch their natal shore.",
        "Wherein I mean to touch your love indeed.",
        "The quarrel toucheth none but us alone.",
        "Storial thing that toucheth gentilesse.",
        "What of sweet before Hath touched my sense, flat seems to this and harsh.",
        "The tender sire was touched with what he said.",
        "The lines, though touched but faintly, are drawn right.",
        "Its face . . . so hard that a file will not touch it.",
        "[They] touched their golden harps.",
        "A person is the royal retinue touched a light and lively air on the flageolet.",
        "Let us make a covenant with thee, that thou wilt do us no hurt, as we have not touched thee.",
        "She feared his head was a little touched.",
        "Strong waters pierce metals, and will touch upon gold, that will not touch upon silver.",
        "If the antiquaries have touched upon it, they immediately quitted it.",
        "Their touch affrights me as a serpent's sting.",
        "The spider's touch, how exquisitely fine.",
        "Not alone The death of Fulvia, with more urgent touches, Do strongly speak to us.",
        "A true, natural, and a sensible touch of mercy.",
        "Speech of touch toward others should be sparingly used.",
        "I never bare any touch of conscience with greater regret.",
        "Never give the least touch with your pencil till you have well examined your design.",
        "Of many faces, eyes, and hearts, To have the touches dearest prized.",
        "Soft stillness and the night Become the touches of sweet harmony.",
        "Eyes La touch of Sir Peter Lely in them.",
        "Madam, I have a touch of your condition.",
        "A small touch will put him in mind of them.",
        "Print my preface in such form as, in the booksellers' phrase, will make a sixpenny touch.",
        "A neat new monument of touch and alabaster.",
        "Equity, the true touch of all laws.",
        "Friends of noble touch .",
        "My mind and senses keep touch and time."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. toucher, OF. touchier, tuchier; of Teutonic origin; cf. OHG. zucchen, zukken, to twitch, pluck, draw, G. zukken, zukken, v. intens. fr. OHG. ziohan to draw, G. ziehen, akin to E. tug. See Tuck, v. t., Tug, and cf. Tocsin, Toccata.]"
}