{
    "word": "Trace",
    "definitions": [
        "One of two straps, chains, or ropes of a harness, extending from the collar or breastplate to a whiffletree attached to a vehicle or thing to be drawn; a tug.",
        "A connecting bar or rod, pivoted at each end to the end of another piece, for transmitting motion, esp. from one plane to another; specif., such a piece in an organ-stop action to transmit motion from the trundle to the lever actuating the stop slider.",
        "A mark left by anything passing; a track; a path; a course; a footprint; a vestige; as, the trace of a carriage or sled; the trace of a deer; a sinuous trace.",
        "A very small quantity of an element or compound in a given substance, especially when so small that the amount is not quantitatively determined in an analysis; -- hence, in stating an analysis, often contracted to tr.",
        "A mark, impression, or visible appearance of anything left when the thing itself no longer exists; remains; token; vestige.",
        "The intersection of a plane of projection, or an original plane, with a coordinate plane.",
        "The ground plan of a work or works.",
        "To mark out; to draw or delineate with marks; especially, to copy, as a drawing or engraving, by following the lines and marking them on a sheet superimposed, through which they appear; as, to trace a figure or an outline; a traced drawing.",
        "To follow by some mark that has been left by a person or thing which has preceded; to follow by footsteps, tracks, or tokens.",
        "Hence, to follow the trace or track of.",
        "To copy; to imitate.",
        "To walk over; to pass through; to traverse.",
        "To walk; to go; to travel."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The shady empire shall retain no trace Of war or blood, but in the sylvan chase.",
        "Some faintly traced features or outline of the mother and the child, slowly lading into the twilight of the woods.",
        "You may trace the deluge quite round the globe.",
        "I feel thy power . . . to trace the ways Of highest agents.",
        "How all the way the prince on footpace traced.",
        "That servile path thou nobly dost decline, Of tracing word, and line by line.",
        "We do tracethis alley up and down.",
        "Not wont on foot with heavy arms to trace."
    ],
    "etymology": "[F. trais. pl. of trait. See Trait.]"
}