{
    "word": "Train",
    "definitions": [
        "To draw along; to trail; to drag.",
        "To draw by persuasion, artifice, or the like; to attract by stratagem; to entice; to allure.",
        "To teach and form by practice; to educate; to exercise; to discipline; as, to train the militia to the manual exercise; to train soldiers to the use of arms.",
        "To break, tame, and accustom to draw, as oxen.",
        "To lead or direct, and form to a wall or espalier; to form to a proper shape, by bending, lopping, or pruning; as, to train young trees.",
        "To trace, as a lode or any mineral appearance, to its head.",
        "To be drilled in military exercises; to do duty in a military company.",
        "To prepare by exercise, diet, instruction, etc., for any physical contest; as, to train for a boat race.",
        "That which draws along; especially, persuasion, artifice, or enticement; allurement.",
        "Hence, something tied to a lure to entice a hawk; also, a trap for an animal; a snare.",
        "That which is drawn along in the rear of, or after, something; that which is in the hinder part or rear.",
        "That part of a gown which trails behind the wearer.",
        "The after part of a gun carriage; the trail.",
        "The tail of a bird.",
        "A number of followers; a body of attendants; a retinue; a suite.",
        "A consecution or succession of connected things; a series.",
        "Regular method; process; course; order; as, things now in a train for settlement.",
        "The number of beats of a watch in any certain time.",
        "A line of gunpowder laid to lead fire to a charge, mine, or the like.",
        "A connected line of cars or carriages on a railroad; -- called also railroad train.",
        "A heavy, long sleigh used in Canada for the transportation of merchandise, wood, and the like.",
        "A roll train; as, a 12-inch train.",
        "The aggregation of men, animals, and vehicles which accompany an army or one of its subdivisions, and transport its baggage, ammunition, supplies, and reserve materials of all kinds."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "In hollow cube Training his devilish enginery.",
        "If but a dozen French Were there in arms, they would be as a call To train ten thousand English to their side.",
        "O, train me not, sweet mermaid, with thy note.",
        "This feast, I'll gage my life, Is but a plot to train you to your ruin.",
        "Our trained bands, which are the trustiest and most proper strength of a free nation.",
        "The warrior horse here bred he's taught to train.",
        "He trained the young branches to the right hand or to the left.",
        "Train up a child in the way he should go; and when he is old, he will not depart from it.",
        "The first Christians were, by great hardships, trained up for glory.",
        "With cunning trains him to entrap un wares.",
        "The king's daughter with a lovely train.",
        "My train are men of choice and rarest parts.",
        "The train of ills our love would draw behind it.",
        "Rivers now Stream and perpetual draw their humid train.",
        "Other truths require a train of ideas placed in order.",
        "If things were once in this train, . . . our duty would take root in our nature."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OF. trahiner, tra,F. tra, LL. trahinare, trainare, fr. L. trahere to draw. See Trail.]"
}