{
    "word": "Trap",
    "definitions": [
        "To dress with ornaments; to adorn; -- said especially of horses.",
        "An old term rather loosely used to designate various dark-colored, heavy igneous rocks, including especially the feldspathic-augitic rocks, basalt, dolerite, amygdaloid, etc., but including also some kinds of diorite. Called also trap rock.",
        "Of or pertaining to trap rock; as, a trap dike.",
        "A machine or contrivance that shuts suddenly, as with a spring, used for taking game or other animals; as, a trap for foxes.",
        "Fig.: A snare; an ambush; a stratagem; any device by which one may be caught unawares.",
        "A wooden instrument shaped somewhat like a shoe, used in the game of trapball. It consists of a pivoted arm on one end of which is placed the ball to be thrown into the air by striking the other end. Also, a machine for throwing into the air glass balls, clay pigeons, etc., to be shot at.",
        "The game of trapball.",
        "A bend, sag, or partitioned chamber, in a drain, soil pipe, sewer, etc., arranged so that the liquid contents form a seal which prevents passage of air or gas, but permits the flow of liquids.",
        "A place in a water pipe, pump, etc., where air accumulates for want of an outlet.",
        "A wagon, or other vehicle.",
        "A kind of movable stepladder.",
        "To catch in a trap or traps; as, to trap foxes.",
        "Fig.: To insnare; to take by stratagem; to entrap.",
        "To provide with a trap; as, to trap a drain; to trap a sewer pipe. See 4th Trap, 5.",
        "To set traps for game; to make a business of trapping game; as, to trap for beaver."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Steeds . . . that trapped were in steel all glittering.",
        "To deck his hearse, and trap his tomb-black steed.",
        "There she found her palfrey trapped In purple blazoned with armorial gold.",
        "She would weep if that she saw a mouse Caught in a trap.",
        "Let their table be made a snare and a trap.",
        "God and your majesty Protect mine innocence, or I fall into The trap is laid for me!"
    ],
    "etymology": "[Akin to OE. trappe trappings, and perhaps from an Old French word of the same origin as E. drab a kind of cloth.]"
}