{
    "word": "Try",
    "definitions": [
        "To divide or separate, as one sort from another; to winnow; to sift; to pick out; -- frequently followed by out; as, to try out the wild corn from the good.",
        "To purify or refine, as metals; to melt out, and procure in a pure state, as oil, tallow, lard, etc.",
        "To prove by experiment; to apply a test to, for the purpose of determining the quality; to examine; to prove; to test; as, to try weights or measures by a standard; to try a man's opinions.",
        "To subject to severe trial; to put to the test; to cause suffering or trouble to.",
        "To experiment with; to test by use; as, to try a remedy for disease; to try a horse.",
        "To strain; to subject to excessive tests; as, the light tries his eyes; repeated disappointments try one's patience.",
        "To examine or investigate judicially; to examine by witnesses or other judicial evidence and the principles of law; as, to try a cause, or a criminal.",
        "To settle; to decide; to determine; specifically, to decide by an appeal to arms; as, to try rival claims by a duel; to try conclusions.",
        "To experience; to have or gain knowledge of by experience.",
        "To essay; to attempt; to endeavor.",
        "To exert strength; to endeavor; to make an effort or an attempt; as, you must try hard if you wish to learn.",
        "To do; to fare; as, how do you try!",
        "A screen, or sieve, for grain.",
        "Act of trying; attempt; experiment; trial.",
        "In Rugby and Northern Union football, a score (counting three points) made by grounding the ball on or behind the opponent's goal line; -- so called because it entitles the side making it to a place kick for a goal (counting two points more if successful).",
        "Refined; select; excellent; choice."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The words of the Lord are pure words: as silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times.",
        "For thou, O God, hast proved us: thou hast tried us, as silver is tried.",
        "Let the end try the man.",
        "Thus far to try thee, Adam, I was pleased.",
        "These are the times that try men's souls.",
        "Come, try upon yourselves what you have seen me.",
        "To ease her cares the force of sleep she tries.",
        "Left I the court, to see this quarrel tried.",
        "Or try the Libyan heat or Scythian cold.",
        "Let us try . . . to found a path.",
        "He first deceased: she for a little tried To live without him; liked it not, and died.",
        "Alack, I am afraid they have a waked, And 't is not done. The attempt, and not the deed, Confounds us.",
        "This breaking of his has been but a try for his friends."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. trien to select, pick out, F. trier to cull, to out, LL. tritare to triturate (hence the sense of, to thresh, to separate the grain from the straw, to select), L. terere, tritum, to rub, bruise, grind, thresh. See Trite.]"
}