{
    "word": "Use",
    "definitions": [
        "The act of employing anything, or of applying it to one's service; the state of being so employed or applied; application; employment; conversion to some purpose; as, the use of a pen in writing; his machines are in general use.",
        "Occasion or need to employ; necessity; as, to have no further use for a book.",
        "Yielding of service; advantage derived; capability of being used; usefulness; utility.",
        "Continued or repeated practice; customary employment; usage; custom; manner; habit.",
        "Common occurrence; ordinary experience.",
        "The special form of ritual adopted for use in any diocese; as, the Sarum, or Canterbury, use; the Hereford use; the York use; the Roman use; etc.",
        "The premium paid for the possession and employment of borrowed money; interest; usury.",
        "The benefit or profit of lands and tenements. Use imports a trust and confidence reposed in a man for the holding of lands. He to whose use or benefit the trust is intended shall enjoy the profits. An estate is granted and limited to A for the use of B.",
        "A stab of iron welded to the side of a forging, as a shaft, near the end, and afterward drawn down, by hammering, so as to lengthen the forging.",
        "To make use of; to convert to one's service; to avail one's self of; to employ; to put a purpose; as, to use a plow; to use a chair; to use time; to use flour for food; to use water for irrigation.",
        "To behave toward; to act with regard to; to treat; as, to use a beast cruelly.",
        "To practice customarily; to make a practice of; as, to use diligence in business.",
        "To accustom; to habituate; to render familiar by practice; to inure; -- employed chiefly in the passive participle; as, men used to cold and hunger; soldiers used to hardships and danger.",
        "To be wont or accustomed; to be in the habit or practice; as, he used to ride daily; -- now disused in the present tense, perhaps because of the similarity in sound, between use to,used to.",
        "To be accustomed to go; to frequent; to inhabit; to dwell; -- sometimes followed by of."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Books can never teach the use of books.",
        "This Davy serves you for good uses.",
        "When he framed All things to man's delightful use.",
        "God made two great lights, great for their use To man.",
        "'T is use alone that sanctifies expense.",
        "Let later age that noble use envy.",
        "How weary, stale, flat and unprofitable, Seem to me all the uses of this world!",
        "O Caesar! these things are beyond all use.",
        "From henceforth all the whole realm shall have but one use.",
        "Thou art more obliged to pay duty and tribute, use and principal, to him.",
        "Launcelot Gobbo, use your legs.",
        "Some other means I have which may be used.",
        "How wouldst thou use me now?",
        "Cato has used me ill.",
        "Use hospitality one to another.",
        "I am so used in the fire to blow.",
        "Thou with thy compeers, Used to the yoke, draw'st his triumphant wheels.",
        "I would, my son, that thou wouldst use the power Which thy discretion gives thee, to control And manage all.",
        "To study nature will thy time employ: Knowledge and innocence are perfect joy.",
        "They use to place him that shall be their captain on a stone.",
        "Fears use to be represented in an imaginary.",
        "Thus we use to say, it is the room that smokes, when indeed it is the fire in the room.",
        "Now Moses used to take the tent and to pitch it without the camp.",
        "He useth every day to a merchant's house.",
        "Ye valleys low, where the mild whispers use Of shades, and wanton winds, and gushing brooks."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. us use, usage, L. usus, from uti, p. p. usus, to use. See Use, v. t.]"
}