{
    "word": "Voice",
    "definitions": [
        "Sound uttered by the mouth, especially that uttered by human beings in speech or song; sound thus uttered considered as possessing some special quality or character; as, the human voice; a pleasant voice; a low voice.",
        "Sound of the kind or quality heard in speech or song in the consonants b, v, d, etc., and in the vowels; sonant, or intonated, utterance; tone; -- distinguished from mere breath sound as heard in f, s, sh, etc., and also whisper.",
        "The tone or sound emitted by anything.",
        "The faculty or power of utterance; as, to cultivate the voice.",
        "Language; words; speech; expression; signification of feeling or opinion.",
        "Opinion or choice expressed; judgment; a vote.",
        "Command; precept; -- now chiefly used in scriptural language.",
        "One who speaks; a speaker.",
        "A particular mode of inflecting or conjugating verbs, or a particular form of a verb, by means of which is indicated the relation of the subject of the verb to the action which the verb expresses.",
        "To give utterance or expression to; to utter; to publish; to announce; to divulge; as, to voice the sentiments of the nation.",
        "To utter with sonant or vocal tone; to pronounce with a narrowed glottis and rapid vibrations of the vocal cords; to speak above a whisper.",
        "To fit for producing the proper sounds; to regulate the tone of; as, to voice the pipes of an organ.",
        "To vote; to elect; to appoint.",
        "To clamor; to cry out."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "He with a manly voice saith his message.",
        "Her voice was ever soft, Gentle, and low; an excellent thing in woman.",
        "Thy voice is music.",
        "Join thy voice unto the angel choir.",
        "After the fire a still small voice.",
        "Canst thou thunder with a voice like him?",
        "The floods have lifted up their voice.",
        "O Marcus, I am warm'd; my heart Leaps at the trumpet's voice.",
        "I desire to be present with you now, and to change my voice; for I stand in doubt of you.",
        "My voice is in my sword.",
        "Let us call on God in the voice of his church.",
        "Sic. How now, my masters! have you chose this man? 1 Cit. He has our voices, sir.",
        "Some laws ordain, and some attend the choice Of holy senates, and elect by voice.",
        "So shall ye perish; because ye would not be obedient unto the voice of the Lord your God.",
        "It was voiced that the king purposed to put to death Edward Plantagenet."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. vois, voys, OF. vois, voiz, F. voix, L. vox, vocis, akin to Gr. vac to say, to speak, G. erw to mention. Cf. Advocate, Advowson, Avouch, Convoke, Epic, Vocal, Vouch, Vowel.]"
}