{
    "word": "Voluntary",
    "definitions": [
        "Proceeding from the will; produced in or by an act of choice.",
        "Unconstrained by the interference of another; unimpelled by the influence of another; not prompted or persuaded by another; done of his or its own accord; spontaneous; acting of one's self, or of itself; free.",
        "Done by design or intention; intentional; purposed; intended; not accidental; as, if a man kills another by lopping a tree, it is not voluntary manslaughter.",
        "Of or pertaining to the will; subject to, or regulated by, the will; as, the voluntary motions of an animal, such as the movements of the leg or arm (in distinction from involuntary motions, such as the movements of the heart); the voluntary muscle fibers, which are the agents in voluntary motion.",
        "Endowed with the power of willing; as, man is a voluntary agent.",
        "Free; without compulsion; according to the will, consent, or agreement, of a party; without consideration; gratuitous; without valuable consideration.",
        "Of or pertaining to voluntaryism; as, a voluntary church, in distinction from an established or state church.",
        "One who engages in any affair of his own free will; a volunteer.",
        "A piece played by a musician, often extemporarily, according to his fancy; specifically, an organ solo played before, during, or after divine service.",
        "One who advocates voluntaryism."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "That sin or guilt pertains exclusively to voluntary action is the true principle of orthodoxy.",
        "Our voluntary service he requires.",
        "She fell to lust a voluntary prey.",
        "God did not work as a necessary, but a voluntary, agent, intending beforehand, and decreeing with himself, that which did outwardly proceed from him."
    ],
    "etymology": "[L. voluntarius, fr. voluntas will, choice, from the root of velle to will, p. pr. volens; akin to E. will: cf. F. volontaire, Of. also voluntaire. See Will, v. t., and cf. Benevolent, Volition, Volunteer.]"
}