{
    "word": "Wake",
    "definitions": [
        "The track left by a vessel in the water; by extension, any track; as, the wake of an army.",
        "To be or to continue awake; to watch; not to sleep.",
        "To sit up late festive purposes; to hold a night revel.",
        "To be excited or roused from sleep; to awake; to be awakened; to cease to sleep; -- often with up.",
        "To be exited or roused up; to be stirred up from a dormant, torpid, or inactive state; to be active.",
        "To rouse from sleep; to awake.",
        "To put in motion or action; to arouse; to excite.",
        "To bring to life again, as if from the sleep of death; to reanimate; to revive.",
        "To watch, or sit up with, at night, as a dead body.",
        "The act of waking, or being awaked; also, the state of being awake.",
        "The state of forbearing sleep, especially for solemn or festive purposes; a vigil.",
        "An annual parish festival formerly held in commemoration of the dedication of a church. Originally, prayers were said on the evening preceding, and hymns were sung during the night, in the church; subsequently, these vigils were discontinued, and the day itself, often with succeeding days, was occupied in rural pastimes and exercises, attended by eating and drinking, often to excess.",
        "The sitting up of persons with a dead body, often attended with a degree of festivity, chiefly among the Irish."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "This effect followed immediately in the wake of his earliest exertions.",
        "Several humbler persons . . . formed quite a procession in the dusty wake of his chariot wheels.",
        "The father waketh for the daughter.",
        "Though wisdom wake, suspicion sleeps.",
        "I can not think any time, waking or sleeping, without being sensible of it.",
        "The king doth wake to-night, and takes his rouse, Keeps wassail, and the swaggering upspring reels.",
        "He infallibly woke up at the sound of the concluding doxology.",
        "Gentle airs due at their hour To fan the earth now waked.",
        "Then wake, my soul, to high desires.",
        "The angel . . . came again and waked me.",
        "Lest fierce remembrance wake my sudden rage.",
        "Even Richard's crusade woke little interest in his island realm.",
        "To second life Waked in the renovation of the just.",
        "Making such difference 'twixt wake and sleep.",
        "Singing her flatteries to my morning wake.",
        "The warlike wakes continued all the night, And funeral games played at new returning light.",
        "The wood nymphs, decked with daises trim, Their merry wakes and pastimes keep.",
        "Great solemnities were made in all churches, and great fairs and wakes throughout all England.",
        "And every village smokes at wakes with lusty cheer."
    ],
    "etymology": "[Originally, an open space of water sv a hole, opening in ice, Sw. vak, Dan. vaage, perhaps akin to E. humid.]"
}