{
    "word": "War",
    "definitions": [
        "Ware; aware.",
        "A contest between nations or states, carried on by force, whether for defence, for revenging insults and redressing wrongs, for the extension of commerce, for the acquisition of territory, for obtaining and establishing the superiority and dominion of one over the other, or for any other purpose; armed conflict of sovereign powers; declared and open hostilities.",
        "A condition of belligerency to be maintained by physical force. In this sense, levying war against the sovereign authority is treason.",
        "Instruments of war.",
        "Forces; army.",
        "The profession of arms; the art of war.",
        "a state of opposition or contest; an act of opposition; an inimical contest, act, or action; enmity; hostility.",
        "To make war; to invade or attack a state or nation with force of arms; to carry on hostilities; to be in a state by violence.",
        "To contend; to strive violently; to fight.",
        "To make war upon; to fight.",
        "To carry on, as a contest; to wage."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Men will ever distinguish war from mere bloodshed.",
        "His complement of stores, and total war.",
        "On their embattled ranks the waves return, And overwhelm their war.",
        "Thou art but a youth, and he is a man of war from his youth.",
        "The words of his mouth were smoother than butter, but war was in his heart.",
        "Rezin the king of Syria, and Pekah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, went up toward Jerusalem to war against it.",
        "Why should I war without the walls of Troy?",
        "Our countrymen were warring on that day!",
        "To war the Scot, and borders to defend.",
        "That thou . . . mightest war a good warfare."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. & AS. werre; akin to OHG. werra scandal, quarrel, sedition, werran to confound, mix, D. warren, G. wirren, verwirren, to embroil, confound, disturb, and perhaps to E. worse; cf. OF. werre war, F. querre, of Teutonic origin. Cf. Guerrilla, Warrior.]"
}