{
    "word": "Warp",
    "definitions": [
        "To throw; hence, to send forth, or throw out, as words; to utter.",
        "To turn or twist out of shape; esp., to twist or bend out of a flat plane by contraction or otherwise.",
        "To turn aside from the true direction; to cause to bend or incline; to pervert.",
        "To weave; to fabricate.",
        "To tow or move, as a vessel, with a line, or warp, attached to a buoy, anchor, or other fixed object.",
        "To cast prematurely, as young; -- said of cattle, sheep, etc.",
        "To let the tide or other water in upon (lowlying land), for the purpose of fertilization, by a deposit of warp, or slimy substance.",
        "To run off the reel into hauls to be tarred, as yarns.",
        "To arrange (yarns) on a warp beam.",
        "To twist the end surfaces of (an aerocurve in an airfoil) in order to restore or maintain equilibrium.",
        "To turn, twist, or be twisted out of shape; esp., to be twisted or bent out of a flat plane; as, a board warps in seasoning or shrinking.",
        "to turn or incline from a straight, true, or proper course; to deviate; to swerve.",
        "To fly with a bending or waving motion; to turn and wave, like a flock of birds or insects.",
        "To cast the young prematurely; to slink; -- said of cattle, sheep, etc.",
        "To wind yarn off bobbins for forming the warp of a web; to wind a warp on a warp beam.",
        "The threads which are extended lengthwise in the loom, and crossed by the woof.",
        "A rope used in hauling or moving a vessel, usually with one end attached to an anchor, a post, or other fixed object; a towing line; a warping hawser.",
        "A slimy substance deposited on land by tides, etc., by which a rich alluvial soil is formed.",
        "A premature casting of young; -- said of cattle, sheep, etc.",
        "Four; esp., four herrings; a cast. See Cast, n., 17.",
        "The state of being warped or twisted; as, the warp of a board."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The planks looked warped.",
        "Walter warped his mouth at this To something so mock solemn, that I laughed.",
        "This first avowed, nor folly warped my mind.",
        "I have no private considerations to warp me in this controversy.",
        "We are divested of all those passions which cloud the intellects, and warp the understandings, of men.",
        "While doth he mischief warp.",
        "One of you will prove a shrunk panel, and, like green timber, warp, warp.",
        "They clamp one piece of wood to the end of another, to keep it from casting, or warping.",
        "There is our commission, From which we would not have you warp.",
        "A pitchy cloud Of locusts, warping on the eastern wind."
    ],
    "etymology": "[AS. wearp; akin to Icel. varp a casting, throwing, Sw. varp the draught of a net, Dan. varp a towline, OHG. warf warp, G. werft. See Warp, v.]"
}