{
    "word": "Waste",
    "definitions": [
        "Desolate; devastated; stripped; bare; hence, dreary; dismal; gloomy; cheerless.",
        "Lying unused; unproductive; worthless; valueless; refuse; rejected; as, waste land; waste paper.",
        "Lost for want of occupiers or use; superfluous.",
        "To bring to ruin; to devastate; to desolate; to destroy.",
        "To wear away by degrees; to impair gradually; to diminish by constant loss; to use up; to consume; to spend; to wear out.",
        "To spend unnecessarily or carelessly; to employ prodigally; to expend without valuable result; to apply to useless purposes; to lavish vainly; to squander; to cause to be lost; to destroy by scattering or injury.",
        "To damage, impair, or injure, as an estate, voluntarily, or by suffering the buildings, fences, etc., to go to decay.",
        "To procure or sustain a reduction of flesh; -- said of a jockey in preparation for a race, etc.",
        "The act of wasting, or the state of being wasted; a squandering; needless destruction; useless consumption or expenditure; devastation; loss without equivalent gain; gradual loss or decrease, by use, wear, or decay; as, a waste of property, time, labor, words, etc.",
        "That which is wasted or desolate; a devastated, uncultivated, or wild country; a deserted region; an unoccupied or unemployed space; a dreary void; a desert; a wilderness.",
        "That which is of no value; worthless remnants; refuse. Specifically: Remnants of cops, or other refuse resulting from the working of cotton, wool, hemp, and the like, used for wiping machinery, absorbing oil in the axle boxes of railway cars, etc.",
        "Spoil, destruction, or injury, done to houses, woods, fences, lands, etc., by a tenant for life or for years, to the prejudice of the heir, or of him in reversion or remainder.",
        "Old or abandoned workings, whether left as vacant space or filled with refuse.",
        "Material derived by mechanical and chemical erosion from the land, carried by streams to the sea."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The dismal situation waste and wild.",
        "His heart became appalled as he gazed forward into the waste darkness of futurity.",
        "But his waste words returned to him in vain.",
        "Not a waste or needless sound, Till we come to holier ground.",
        "Ill day which made this beauty waste.",
        "And strangled with her waste fertility.",
        "Thou barren ground, whom winter's wrath hath wasted, Art made a mirror to behold my plight.",
        "The Tiber Insults our walls, and wastes our fruitful grounds.",
        "Until your carcasses be wasted in the wilderness.",
        "O, were I able To waste it all myself, and leave ye none!",
        "Here condemned To waste eternal days in woe and pain.",
        "Wasted by such a course of life, the infirmities of age daily grew on him.",
        "The younger son gathered all together, and . . . wasted his substance with riotous living.",
        "Full many a flower is born to blush unseen, And waste its sweetness on the desert air.",
        "The time wasteth night and day.",
        "The barrel of meal shall not waste.",
        "But man dieth, and wasteth away.",
        "For all this waste of wealth loss of blood.",
        "He will never . . . in the way of waste, attempt us again.",
        "Little wastes in great establishments, constantly occurring, may defeat the energies of a mighty capital.",
        "All the leafy nation sinks at last, And Vulcan rides in triumph o'er the waste.",
        "The gloomy waste of waters which bears his name is his tomb and his monument."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. wast, OF. wast, from L. vastus, influenced by the kindred German word; cf. OHG. wuosti, G. w, OS. w, D. woest, AS. w. Cf. Vast.]"
}