{
    "word": "Watch",
    "definitions": [
        "The act of watching; forbearance of sleep; vigil; wakeful, vigilant, or constantly observant attention; close observation; guard; preservative or preventive vigilance; formerly, a watching or guarding by night.",
        "One who watches, or those who watch; a watchman, or a body of watchmen; a sentry; a guard.",
        "The post or office of a watchman; also, the place where a watchman is posted, or where a guard is kept.",
        "The period of the night during which a person does duty as a sentinel, or guard; the time from the placing of a sentinel till his relief; hence, a division of the night.",
        "A small timepiece, or chronometer, to be carried about the person, the machinery of which is moved by a spring.",
        "An allotted portion of time, usually four hour for standing watch, or being on deck ready for duty. Cf. Dogwatch.",
        "That part, usually one half, of the officers and crew, who together attend to the working of a vessel for an allotted time, usually four hours. The watches are designated as the port watch, and the starboard watch.",
        "To be awake; to be or continue without sleep; to wake; to keep vigil.",
        "To be attentive or vigilant; to give heed; to be on the lookout; to keep guard; to act as sentinel.",
        "To be expectant; to look with expectation; to wait; to seek opportunity.",
        "To remain awake with any one as nurse or attendant; to attend on the sick during the night; as, to watch with a man in a fever.",
        "To serve the purpose of a watchman by floating properly in its place; -- said of a buoy.",
        "To give heed to; to observe the actions or motions of, for any purpose; to keep in view; not to lose from sight and observation; as, to watch the progress of a bill in the legislature.",
        "To tend; to guard; to have in keeping."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Shepherds keeping watch by night.",
        "All the long night their mournful watch they keep.",
        "Still, when she slept, he kept both watch and ward.",
        "Ward, guard, or custodia, is chiefly applied to the daytime, in order to apprehend rioters, and robbers on the highway . . . Watch, is properly applicable to the night only, . . . and it begins when ward ends, and ends when that begins.",
        "Pilate said unto them, Ye have a watch; go your way, make it as sure as ye can.",
        "He upbraids Iago, that he made him Brave me upon the watch.",
        "I did stand my watch upon the hill.",
        "Might we but hear . . . Or whistle from the lodge, or village cock Count the night watches to his feathery dames.",
        "I have two nights watched with you.",
        "Couldest thou not watch one hour ?",
        "Take ye heed, watch and pray.",
        "The Son gave signal high To the bright minister that watched.",
        "My soul waiteth for the Lord more than they that watch for the morning.",
        "Saul also sent messengers unto David's house to watch him, and to slay him.",
        "I must cool a little, and watch my opportunity.",
        "In lazy mood I watched the little circles die.",
        "And flaming ministers, to watch and tend Their earthy charge.",
        "Paris watched the flocks in the groves of Ida."
    ],
    "etymology": "[Cf. AS. w, wacian. Watch, n., Wake, v. i. ]"
}