{
    "word": "Wave",
    "definitions": [
        "To play loosely; to move like a wave, one way and the other; to float; to flutter; to undulate.",
        "To be moved to and fro as a signal.",
        "To fluctuate; to waver; to be in an unsettled state; to vacillate.",
        "To move one way and the other; to brandish.",
        "To raise into inequalities of surface; to give an undulating form a surface to.",
        "To move like a wave, or by floating; to waft.",
        "To call attention to, or give a direction or command to, by a waving motion, as of the hand; to signify by waving; to beckon; to signal; to indicate.",
        "An advancing ridge or swell on the surface of a liquid, as of the sea, resulting from the oscillatory motion of the particles composing it when disturbed by any force their position of rest; an undulation.",
        "A vibration propagated from particle to particle through a body or elastic medium, as in the transmission of sound; an assemblage of vibrating molecules in all phases of a vibration, with no phase repeated; a wave of vibration; an undulation. See Undulation.",
        "Water; a body of water.",
        "Unevenness; inequality of surface.",
        "A waving or undulating motion; a signal made with the hand, a flag, etc.",
        "The undulating line or streak of luster on cloth watered, or calendered, or on damask steel.",
        "Something resembling or likened to a water wave, as in rising unusually high, in being of unusual extent, or in progressive motion; a swelling or excitement, as of feeling or energy; a tide; flood; period of intensity, usual activity, or the like; as, a wave of enthusiasm; waves of applause."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "His purple robes waved careless to the winds.",
        "Where the flags of three nations has successively waved.",
        "He waved indifferently 'twixt doing them neither good nor harm.",
        "Horns whelked and waved like the enridged sea.",
        "Look, with what courteous action It waves you to a more removed ground.",
        "She spoke, and bowing waved Dismissal.",
        "The wave behind impels the wave before.",
        "Build a ship to save thee from the flood, I 'll furnish thee with fresh wave, bread, and wine."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. waven, AS. wafian to waver, to hesitate, to wonder; akin to w wavering, restless, MHG. wabern to be in motion, Icel. vafra to hover about; cf. Icel. v to vibrate. Cf. Waft, Waver.]"
}