{
    "word": "Wax",
    "definitions": [
        "To increase in size; to grow bigger; to become larger or fuller; -- opposed to wane.",
        "To pass from one state to another; to become; to grow; as, to wax strong; to wax warmer or colder; to wax feeble; to wax old; to wax worse and worse.",
        "A fatty, solid substance, produced by bees, and employed by them in the construction of their comb; -- usually called beeswax. It is first excreted, from a row of pouches along their sides, in the form of scales, which, being masticated and mixed with saliva, become whitened and tenacious. Its natural color is pale or dull yellow.",
        "Hence, any substance resembling beeswax in consistency or appearance.",
        "Cerumen, or earwax.",
        "A waxlike composition used for uniting surfaces, for excluding air, and for other purposes; as, sealing wax, grafting wax, etching wax, etc.",
        "A waxlike composition used by shoemakers for rubbing their thread.",
        "A substance similar to beeswax, secreted by several species of scale insects, as the Chinese wax. See Wax insect, below.",
        "A waxlike product secreted by certain plants. See Vegetable wax, under Vegetable.",
        "A substance, somewhat resembling wax, found in connection with certain deposits of rock salt and coal; -- called also mineral wax, and ozocerite.",
        "Thick sirup made by boiling down the sap of the sugar maple, and then cooling.",
        "any of numerous substances or mixtures composed predominantly of the longer-chain saturated hydrocarbons such as the paraffins, which are solid at room teperature, or their alcohol, carboxylic acid, or ester derivatives.",
        "To smear or rub with wax; to treat with wax; as, to wax a thread or a table."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The waxing and the waning of the moon.",
        "Truth's treasures . . . never shall wax ne wane.",
        "Your clothes are not waxen old upon you.",
        "Where young Adonis oft reposes, Waxing well of his deep wound."
    ],
    "etymology": "[AS. weax; akin to OFries. wax, D. was, G. wachs, OHG. wahs, Icel. & Sw. vax, Dan. vox, Lith. vaszkas, Russ. vosk'.]"
}