{
    "word": "Weak",
    "definitions": [
        "Wanting physical strength.",
        "Deficient in strength of body; feeble; infirm; sickly; debilitated; enfeebled; exhausted.",
        "Not able to sustain a great weight, pressure, or strain; as, a weak timber; a weak rope.",
        "Not firmly united or adhesive; easily broken or separated into pieces; not compact; as, a weak ship.",
        "Not stiff; pliant; frail; soft; as, the weak stalk of a plant.",
        "Not able to resist external force or onset; easily subdued or overcome; as, a weak barrier; as, a weak fortress.",
        "Lacking force of utterance or sound; not sonorous; low; small; feeble; faint.",
        "Not thoroughly or abundantly impregnated with the usual or required ingredients, or with stimulating and nourishing substances; of less than the usual strength; as, weak tea, broth, or liquor; a weak decoction or solution; a weak dose of medicine.",
        "Lacking ability for an appropriate function or office; as, weak eyes; a weak stomach; a weak magistrate; a weak regiment, or army.",
        "Not possessing or manifesting intellectual, logical, moral, or political strength, vigor, etc.",
        "Feeble of mind; wanting discernment; lacking vigor; spiritless; as, a weak king or magistrate.",
        "Resulting from, or indicating, lack of judgment, discernment, or firmness; unwise; hence, foolish.",
        "Not having full confidence or conviction; not decided or confirmed; vacillating; wavering.",
        "Not able to withstand temptation, urgency, persuasion, etc.; easily impressed, moved, or overcome; accessible; vulnerable; as, weak resolutions; weak virtue.",
        "Wanting in power to influence or bind; as, weak ties; a weak sense of honor of duty.",
        "Not having power to convince; not supported by force of reason or truth; unsustained; as, a weak argument or case.",
        "Wanting in point or vigor of expression; as, a weak sentence; a weak style.",
        "Not prevalent or effective, or not felt to be prevalent; not potent; feeble.",
        "Lacking in elements of political strength; not wielding or having authority or energy; deficient in the resources that are essential to a ruler or nation; as, a weak monarch; a weak government or state.",
        "Tending towards lower prices; as, a weak market.",
        "Pertaining to, or designating, a verb which forms its preterit (imperfect) and past participle by adding to the present the suffix -ed, -d, or the variant form -t; as in the verbs abash, abashed; abate, abated; deny, denied; feel, felt. See Strong, 19 (a).",
        "Pertaining to, or designating, a noun in Anglo-Saxon, etc., the stem of which ends in -n. See Strong, 19 (b).",
        "Tending toward a lower price or lower prices; as, wheat is weak; a weak market.",
        "Lacking in good cards; deficient as to number or strength; as, a hand weak in trumps.",
        "Lacking contrast; as, a weak negative.",
        "To make or become weak; to weaken."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "A poor, infirm, weak, and despised old man.",
        "Weak with hunger, mad with love.",
        "A voice not soft, weak, piping, and womanish.",
        "To think every thing disputable is a proof of a weak mind and captious temper.",
        "Origen was never weak enough to imagine that there were two Gods.",
        "If evil thence ensue, She first his weak indulgence will accuse.",
        "Him that is weak in the faith receive ye, but not to doubtful disputations.",
        "Guard thy heart On this weak side, where most our nature fails.",
        "A case so weak . . . hath much persisted in.",
        "I must make fair weather yet awhile, Till Henry be more weak, and I more strong.",
        "Never to seek weaking variety."
    ],
    "etymology": "[Cf. AS. w. w. See Weak, a.]"
}