{
    "word": "Wear",
    "definitions": [
        "To carry or bear upon the person; to bear upon one's self, as an article of clothing, decoration, warfare, bondage, etc.; to have appendant to one's body; to have on; as, to wear a coat; to wear a shackle.",
        "To have or exhibit an appearance of, as an aspect or manner; to bear; as, she wears a smile on her countenance.",
        "To use up by carrying or having upon one's self; hence, to consume by use; to waste; to use up; as, to wear clothes rapidly.",
        "To impair, waste, or diminish, by continual attrition, scraping, percussion, on the like; to consume gradually; to cause to lower or disappear; to spend.",
        "To cause or make by friction or wasting; as, to wear a channel; to wear a hole.",
        "To form or shape by, or as by, attrition.",
        "To endure or suffer use; to last under employment; to bear the consequences of use, as waste, consumption, or attrition; as, a coat wears well or ill; -- hence, sometimes applied to character, qualifications, etc.; as, a man wears well as an acquaintance.",
        "To be wasted, consumed, or diminished, by being used; to suffer injury, loss, or extinction by use or time; to decay, or be spent, gradually.",
        "The act of wearing, or the state of being worn; consumption by use; diminution by friction; as, the wear of a garment.",
        "The thing worn; style of dress; the fashion.",
        "The result of wearing or use; consumption, diminution, or impairment due to use, friction, or the like; as, the wear of this coat has been good.",
        "A dam in a river to stop and raise the water, for the purpose of conducting it to a mill, forming a fish pond, or the like.",
        "A fence of stakes, brushwood, or the like, set in a stream, tideway, or inlet of the sea, for taking fish.",
        "A long notch with a horizontal edge, as in the top of a vertical plate or plank, through which water flows, -- used in measuring the quantity of flowing water."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "What compass will you wear your farthingale?",
        "On her white breast a sparkling cross she wore, Which Jews might kiss, and infidels adore.",
        "His innocent gestures wear A meaning half divine.",
        "That wicked wight his days doth wear.",
        "The waters wear the stones.",
        "Trials wear us into a liking of what, possibly, in the first essay, displeased us.",
        "Away, I say; time wears.",
        "Thou wilt surely wear away, both thou and this people that is with thee.",
        "His stock of money began to wear very low.",
        "The family . . . wore out in the earlier part of the century.",
        "Motley 's the only wear."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. weren, werien, AS. werian to carry, to wear, as arms or clothes; akin to OHG. werien, weren, to clothe, Goth. wasjan, L. vestis clothing, vestire to clothe, Gr. \"enny`nai, Skr. vas. Cf. Vest.]"
}