{
    "word": "Weather",
    "definitions": [
        "The state of the air or atmosphere with respect to heat or cold, wetness or dryness, calm or storm, clearness or cloudiness, or any other meteorological phenomena; meteorological condition of the atmosphere; as, warm weather; cold weather; wet weather; dry weather, etc.",
        "Vicissitude of season; meteorological change; alternation of the state of the air.",
        "Storm; tempest.",
        "A light rain; a shower.",
        "To expose to the air; to air; to season by exposure to air.",
        "Hence, to sustain the trying effect of; to bear up against and overcome; to sustain; to endure; to resist; as, to weather the storm.",
        "To sail or pass to the windward of; as, to weather a cape; to weather another ship.",
        "To place (a hawk) unhooded in the open air.",
        "To undergo or endure the action of the atmosphere; to suffer meteorological influences; sometimes, to wear away, or alter, under atmospheric influences; to suffer waste by weather.",
        "Being toward the wind, or windward -- opposed to lee; as, weather bow, weather braces, weather gauge, weather lifts, weather quarter, weather shrouds, etc."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Not amiss to cool a man's stomach this hot weather.",
        "Fair weather cometh out of the north.",
        "What gusts of weather from that gathering cloud My thoughts presage!",
        "Peace to the artist whose ingenious thought Devised the weather house, that useful toy!",
        "[An eagle] soaring through his wide empire of the air To weather his broad sails.",
        "This gear lacks weathering.",
        "For I can weather the roughest gale.",
        "You will weather the difficulties yet.",
        "The organisms . . . seem indestructible, while the hard matrix in which they are imbedded has weathered from around them.",
        "To veer, and tack, and steer a cause Against the weather gauge of laws."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. weder, AS. weder; akin to OS. wedar, OFries. weder, D. weder, we, G. wetter, OHG. wetar, Icel. ve, Dan. veir, Sw. v wind, air, weather, and perhaps to OSlav. vedro fair weather; or perhaps to Lith. vetra storm, Russ. vieter', vietr', wind, and E. wind. Cf. Wither.]"
}