{
    "word": "Weight",
    "definitions": [
        "The quality of being heavy; that property of bodies by which they tend toward the center of the earth; the effect of gravitative force, especially when expressed in certain units or standards, as pounds, grams, etc.",
        "The quantity of heaviness; comparative tendency to the center of the earth; the quantity of matter as estimated by the balance, or expressed numerically with reference to some standard unit; as, a mass of stone having the weight of five hundred pounds.",
        "Hence, pressure; burden; as, the weight of care or business.",
        "Importance; power; influence; efficacy; consequence; moment; impressiveness; as, a consideration of vast weight.",
        "A scale, or graduated standard, of heaviness; a mode of estimating weight; as, avoirdupois weight; troy weight; apothecaries' weight.",
        "A ponderous mass; something heavy; as, a clock weight; a paper weight.",
        "A definite mass of iron, lead, brass, or other metal, to be used for ascertaining the weight of other bodies; as, an ounce weight.",
        "The resistance against which a machine acts, as opposed to the power which moves it.",
        "To load with a weight or weights; to load down; to make heavy; to attach weights to; as, to weight a horse or a jockey at a race; to weight a whip handle.",
        "To assign a weight to; to express by a number the probable accuracy of, as an observation. See Weight of observations, under Weight.",
        "To load (fabrics) as with barite, to increase the weight, etc.",
        "to assign a numerical value expressing relative importance to (a measurement), to be multiplied by the value of the measurement in determining averages or other aggregate quantities; as, they weighted part one of the test twice as heavily as part 2."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "For sorrow, like a heavy-hanging bell, Once set on ringing, with his own weight goes.",
        "For the public all this weight he bears.",
        "[He] who singly bore the world's sad weight.",
        "In such a point of weight, so near mine honor.",
        "A man leapeth better with weights in his hands.",
        "The arrows of satire, . . . weighted with sense."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. weght, wight, AS. gewiht; akin to D. gewigt, G. gewicht, Icel. v, Sw. vigt, Dan. v. See Weigh, v. t.]"
}