{
    "word": "Weigh",
    "definitions": [
        "To bear up; to raise; to lift into the air; to swing up; as, to weigh anchor.",
        "To examine by the balance; to ascertain the weight of, that is, the force with which a thing tends to the center of the earth; to determine the heaviness, or quantity of matter of; as, to weigh sugar; to weigh gold.",
        "To be equivalent to in weight; to counterbalance; to have the heaviness of.",
        "To pay, allot, take, or give by weight.",
        "To examine or test as if by the balance; to ponder in the mind; to consider or examine for the purpose of forming an opinion or coming to a conclusion; to estimate deliberately and maturely; to balance.",
        "To consider as worthy of notice; to regard.",
        "To have weight; to be heavy.",
        "To be considered as important; to have weight in the intellectual balance.",
        "To bear heavily; to press hard.",
        "To judge; to estimate.",
        "A certain quantity estimated by weight; an English measure of weight. See Wey."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "An expedition was got under weigh from New York.",
        "The Athenians . . . hurried on board and with considerable difficulty got under weigh.",
        "Thou art weighed in the balances, and art found wanting.",
        "They weighed for my price thirty pieces of silver.",
        "A young man not weighed in state affairs.",
        "Had no better weighed The strength he was to cope with, or his own.",
        "Regard not who it is which speaketh, but weigh only what is spoken.",
        "In nice balance, truth with gold she weighs.",
        "Without sufficiently weighing his expressions.",
        "All that she so dear did weigh.",
        "Your vows to her and me . . . will even weigh.",
        "This objection ought to weigh with those whose reading is designed for much talk and little knowledge.",
        "Cleanse the stuffed bosom of that perilous stuff Which weighs upon the heart.",
        "Could not weigh of worthiness aright."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. weien, weyen, weghen, AS. wegan to bear, move; akin to D. wegen to weigh, G. w, wiegen, to weigh, bewegen to move, OHG. wegan, Icel. vega to move, carry, lift, weigh, Sw. v to weigh, Dan. veie, Goth. gawigan to shake, L. vehere to carry, Skr. vah. Way, and cf. Wey.]"
}