{
    "word": "Well",
    "definitions": [
        "An issue of water from the earth; a spring; a fountain.",
        "A pit or hole sunk into the earth to such a depth as to reach a supply of water, generally of a cylindrical form, and often walled with stone or bricks to prevent the earth from caving in.",
        "A shaft made in the earth to obtain oil or brine.",
        "Fig.: A source of supply; fountain; wellspring.",
        "An inclosure in the middle of a vessel's hold, around the pumps, from the bottom to the lower deck, to preserve the pumps from damage and facilitate their inspection.",
        "A compartment in the middle of the hold of a fishing vessel, made tight at the sides, but having holes perforated in the bottom to let in water for the preservation of fish alive while they are transported to market.",
        "A vertical passage in the stern into which an auxiliary screw propeller may be drawn up out of water.",
        "A depressed space in the after part of the deck; -- often called the cockpit.",
        "A hole or excavation in the earth, in mining, from which run branches or galleries.",
        "An opening through the floors of a building, as for a staircase or an elevator; a wellhole.",
        "The lower part of a furnace, into which the metal falls.",
        "To issue forth, as water from the earth; to flow; to spring.",
        "To pour forth, as from a well.",
        "In a good or proper manner; justly; rightly; not ill or wickedly.",
        "Suitably to one's condition, to the occasion, or to a proposed end or use; suitably; abundantly; fully; adequately; thoroughly.",
        "Fully or about; -- used with numbers.",
        "In such manner as is desirable; so as one could wish; satisfactorily; favorably; advantageously; conveniently.",
        "Considerably; not a little; far.",
        "Good in condition or circumstances; desirable, either in a natural or moral sense; fortunate; convenient; advantageous; happy; as, it is well for the country that the crops did not fail; it is well that the mistake was discovered.",
        "Being in health; sound in body; not ailing, diseased, or sick; healthy; as, a well man; the patient is perfectly well.",
        "Being in favor; favored; fortunate.",
        "Safe; as, a chip warranted well at a certain day and place."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Begin, then, sisters of the sacred well.",
        "The woman said unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep.",
        "Dan Chaucer, well of English undefiled.",
        "A well of serious thought and pure.",
        "From his two springs in Gojam's sunny realm, Pure welling out, he through the lucid lake Of fair Dambea rolls his infant streams.",
        "If thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door.",
        "Lot . . . beheld all the plain of Jordan, that it was well watered everywhere.",
        "WE are wellable to overcome it.",
        "She looketh well to the ways of her household.",
        "Servant of God, well done! well hast thou fought The better fight.",
        "Well nine and twenty in a company.",
        "Know In measure what the mind may well contain.",
        "All the world speaks well of you.",
        "Abraham and Sarah were old and well stricken in age.",
        "It was well with us in Egypt.",
        "Is your father well, the old man of whom ye spake?",
        "He followed the fortunes of that family, and was well with Henry the Fourth."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. welle, AS. wella, wylla, from weallan to well up, surge, boil; akin to D. wel a spring or fountain. Well, v. i.]"
}