{
    "word": "What",
    "definitions": [
        "As an interrogative pronoun, used in asking questions regarding either persons or things; as, what is this? what did you say? what poem is this? what child is lost?",
        "As an exclamatory word: -- (a) Used absolutely or independently; -- often with a question following.",
        "Used adjectively, meaning how remarkable, or how great; as, what folly! what eloquence! what courage!",
        "Sometimes prefixed to adjectives in an adverbial sense, as nearly equivalent to how; as, what happy boys!",
        "As a relative pronoun",
        "Used substantively with the antecedent suppressed, equivalent to that which, or those [persons] who, or those [things] which; -- called a compound relative.",
        "Used adjectively, equivalent to the . . . which; the sort or kind of . . . which; rarely, the . . . on, or at, which.",
        "Used adverbially in a sense corresponding to the adjectival use; as, he picked what good fruit he saw.",
        "Whatever; whatsoever; what thing soever; -- used indefinitely.",
        "Used adverbially, in part; partly; somewhat; -- with a following preposition, especially, with, and commonly with repetition.",
        "Something; thing; stuff.",
        "Why? For what purpose? On what account?"
    ],
    "examples": [
        "What see'st thou in the ground?",
        "What is man, that thou art mindful of him?",
        "What manner of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him!",
        "What, could ye not watch with me one hour?",
        "What a piece of work is man!",
        "O what a riddle of absurdity!",
        "What partial judges are our love and hate!",
        "With joy beyond what victory bestows.",
        "I'm thinking Captain Lawton will count the noses of what are left before they see their whaleboats.",
        "What followed was in perfect harmony with this beginning.",
        "I know well . . . how little you will be disposed to criticise what comes to you from me.",
        "See what natures accompany what colors.",
        "To restrain what power either the devil or any earthly enemy hath to work us woe.",
        "We know what master laid thy keel, What workmen wrought thy ribs of steel.",
        "Whether it were the shortness of his foresight, the strength of his will, . . . or what it was.",
        "What for lust [pleasure] and what for lore.",
        "Thus, what with the war, what with the sweat, what with the gallows, and what with poverty, I am custom shrunk.",
        "The year before he had so used the matter that what by force, what by policy, he had taken from the Christians above thirty small castles.",
        "What time the morn mysterious visions brings.",
        "And gave him for to feed, Such homely what as serves the simple clown.",
        "What should I tell the answer of the knight.",
        "But what do I stand reckoning upon advantages and gains lost by the misrule and turbulency of the prelates? What do I pick up so thriftily their scatterings and diminishings of the meaner subject?"
    ],
    "etymology": null
}