{
    "word": "Whip",
    "definitions": [
        "To strike with a lash, a cord, a rod, or anything slender and lithe; to lash; to beat; as, to whip a horse, or a carpet.",
        "To drive with lashes or strokes of a whip; to cause to rotate by lashing with a cord; as, to whip a top.",
        "To punish with a whip, scourge, or rod; to flog; to beat; as, to whip a vagrant; to whip one with thirty nine lashes; to whip a perverse boy.",
        "To apply that which hurts keenly to; to lash, as with sarcasm, abuse, or the like; to apply cutting language to.",
        "To thrash; to beat out, as grain, by striking; as, to whip wheat.",
        "To beat (eggs, cream, or the like) into a froth, as with a whisk, fork, or the like.",
        "To conquer; to defeat, as in a contest or game; to beat; to surpass.",
        "To overlay (a cord, rope, or the like) with other cords going round and round it; to overcast, as the edge of a seam; to wrap; -- often with about, around, or over.",
        "To sew lightly; specifically, to form (a fabric) into gathers by loosely overcasting the rolled edge and drawing up the thread; as, to whip a ruffle.",
        "To take or move by a sudden motion; to jerk; to snatch; -- with into, out, up, off, and the like.",
        "To hoist or purchase by means of a whip.",
        "To secure the end of (a rope, or the like) from untwisting by overcasting it with small stuff.",
        "To fish (a body of water) with a rod and artificial fly, the motion being that employed in using a whip.",
        "To move nimbly; to start or turn suddenly and do something; to whisk; as, he whipped around the corner.",
        "An instrument or driving horses or other animals, or for correction, consisting usually of a lash attached to a handle, or of a handle and lash so combined as to form a flexible rod.",
        "A coachman; a driver of a carriage; as, a good whip.",
        "One of the arms or frames of a windmill, on which the sails are spread.",
        "The length of the arm reckoned from the shaft.",
        "A small tackle with a single rope, used to hoist light bodies.",
        "The long pennant. See Pennant (a)",
        "A huntsman who whips in the hounds; whipper-in.",
        "A person (as a member of Parliament) appointed to enforce party discipline, and secure the attendance of the members of a Parliament party at any important session, especially when their votes are needed.",
        "A call made upon members of a Parliament party to be in their places at a given time, as when a vote is to be taken.",
        "A whipping motion; a thrashing about; as, the whip of a tense rope or wire which has suddenly parted; also, the quality of being whiplike or flexible; flexibility; suppleness, as of the shaft of a golf club.",
        "Any of various pieces that operate with a quick vibratory motion, as a spring in certain electrical devices for making a circuit, or a rocking certain piano actions."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Who, for false quantities, was whipped at school.",
        "They would whip me with their fine wits.",
        "Its string is firmly whipped about with small gut.",
        "In half-whipped muslin needles useless lie.",
        "She, in a hurry, whips up her darling under her arm.",
        "He whips out his pocketbook every moment, and writes descriptions of everything he sees.",
        "Whipping their rough surface for a trout.",
        "With speed from thence he whipped.",
        "Two friends, traveling, met a bear upon the way; the one whips up a tree, and the other throws himself flat upon the ground.",
        "In his right hand he holds a whip, with which he is supposed to drive the horses of the sun."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. whippen to overlay, as a cord, with other cords, probably akin to G. & D. wippen to shake, to move up and down, Sw. vippa, Dan. vippe to swing to and fro, to shake, to toss up, and L. vibrare to shake. Cf. Vibrate.]"
}