{
    "word": "Wide",
    "definitions": [
        "Having a great extent every way; extended; spacious; broad; vast; extensive; as, a wide plain; the wide ocean; a wide difference.",
        "Of large scope; comprehensive; liberal; broad; as, wide views; a wide understanding.",
        "Of a certain measure between the sides; measuring in a direction at right angles to that of length; as, a table three feet wide.",
        "Remote; distant; far.",
        "Far from truth, from propriety, from necessity, or the like.",
        "On one side or the other of the mark; too far side-wise from the mark, the wicket, the batsman, etc.",
        "Made, as a vowel, with a less tense, and more open and relaxed, condition of the mouth organs; -- opposed to primary as used by Mr. Bell, and to narrow as used by Mr. Sweet. The effect, as explained by Mr. Bell, is due to the relaxation or tension of the pharynx; as explained by Mr. Sweet and others, it is due to the action of the tongue. The wide of Guide to Pronunciation, [1913 Webster]",
        "Having or showing a wide difference between the highest and lowest price, amount of supply, etc.; as, a wide opening; wide prices, where the prices bid and asked differ by several points.",
        "To a distance; far; widely; to a great distance or extent; as, his fame was spread wide.",
        "So as to leave or have a great space between the sides; so as to form a large opening.",
        "So as to be or strike far from, or on one side of, an object or purpose; aside; astray.",
        "That which is wide; wide space; width; extent.",
        "That which goes wide, or to one side of the mark."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "The chambers and the stables weren wyde.",
        "Wide is the gate . . . that leadeth to destruction.",
        "For sceptered cynics earth were far too wide a den.",
        "When the wide bloom, on earth that lies, Seems of a brighter world than ours.",
        "Men of strongest head and widest culture.",
        "The contrary being so wide from the truth of Scripture and the attributes of God.",
        "It is far wide that the people have such judgments.",
        "How wide is all this long pretense !",
        "Surely he shoots wide on the bow hand.",
        "I was but two bows wide.",
        "[I] went wyde in this world, wonders to hear."
    ],
    "etymology": "[As. w.]"
}