{
    "word": "Will",
    "definitions": [
        "The power of choosing; the faculty or endowment of the soul by which it is capable of choosing; the faculty or power of the mind by which we decide to do or not to do; the power or faculty of preferring or selecting one of two or more objects.",
        "The choice which is made; a determination or preference which results from the act or exercise of the power of choice; a volition.",
        "The choice or determination of one who has authority; a decree; a command; discretionary pleasure.",
        "Strong wish or inclination; desire; purpose.",
        "That which is strongly wished or desired.",
        "Arbitrary disposal; power to control, dispose, or determine.",
        "The legal declaration of a person's mind as to the manner in which he would have his property or estate disposed of after his death; the written instrument, legally executed, by which a man makes disposition of his estate, to take effect after his death; testament; devise. See the Note under Testament, 1.",
        "To wish; to desire; to incline to have.",
        "As an auxiliary, will is used to denote futurity dependent on the verb. Thus, in first person, willas, I will go if you wish; I will go at all hazards. In the second and third persons, the idea of distinct volition, wish, or purpose is evanescent, and simple certainty is appropriately expressed; as, will go,will go,. To emphasize will denotes (according to the tone or context) certain futurity or fixed determination.",
        "To be willing; to be inclined or disposed; to be pleased; to wish; to desire.",
        "To form a distinct volition of; to determine by an act of choice; to ordain; to decree.",
        "To enjoin or command, as that which is determined by an act of volition; to direct; to order.",
        "To give or direct the disposal of by testament; to bequeath; to devise; as, to will one's estate to a child; also, to order or direct by testament; as, he willed that his nephew should have his watch.",
        "To exercise an act of volition; to choose; to decide; to determine; to decree."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "It is necessary to form a distinct notion of what is meant by the word will, for this last word expresses the power of mind of which Stewart. [1913 Webster]",
        "Will is an ambiguous word, being sometimes put for the faculty of willing; sometimes for the act of that faculty, besides [having] other meanings. But Reid. [1913 Webster]",
        "Appetite is the will's solicitor, and the will is appetite's controller; what we covet according to the one, by the other we often reject.",
        "The will is plainly that by which the mind chooses anything.",
        "The word will.",
        "Thy will be done.",
        "Our prayers should be according to the will of God.",
        "My poverty, but not my will, consents; . . . Put this in any liquid thing you will, And drink it off.",
        "What's your will, good friar?",
        "The mariner hath his will.",
        "Deliver me not over unto the will of mine enemies.",
        "A wife as of herself no thing ne sholde [should] Wille in effect, but as her husband wolde [would].",
        "Caleb said unto her, What will thou ?",
        "They would none of my counsel.",
        "I am able to devote as much time and attention to other subjects as I will [shall] be under the necessity of doing next winter.",
        "A countryman, telling us what he had seen, remarked that if the conflagration went on, as it was doing, we would [should] have, as our next season's employment, the Old Town of Edinburgh to rebuild.",
        "I feel assured that I will [shall] not have the misfortune to find conflicting views held by one so enlightened as your excellency.",
        "And behold, there came a leper and worshiped him, saying, Lord if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. And Jesus . . . touched him, saying, I will; be thou clean.",
        "By all law and reason, that which the Parliament will not, is no more established in this kingdom.",
        "Two things he [God] willeth, that we should be good, and that we should be happy.",
        "They willed me say so, madam.",
        "Send for music, And will the cooks to use their best of cunning To please the palate.",
        "As you go, will the lord mayor . . . To attend our further pleasure presently.",
        "At Winchester he lies, so himself willed.",
        "He that shall turn his thoughts inward upon what passes in his own mind when he wills.",
        "I contend for liberty as it signifies a power in man to do as he wills or pleases."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. wille, AS. willa; akin to OFries. willa, OS. willeo, willio, D. wil, G. wille, Icel. vili, Dan. villie, Sw. vilja, Goth wilja. See Will, v.]"
}