{
    "word": "Wind",
    "definitions": [
        "To turn completely, or with repeated turns; especially, to turn about something fixed; to cause to form convolutions about anything; to coil; to twine; to twist; to wreathe; as, to wind thread on a spool or into a ball.",
        "To entwist; to infold; to encircle.",
        "To have complete control over; to turn and bend at one's pleasure; to vary or alter or will; to regulate; to govern.",
        "To introduce by insinuation; to insinuate.",
        "To cover or surround with something coiled about; as, to wind a rope with twine.",
        "To turn completely or repeatedly; to become coiled about anything; to assume a convolved or spiral form; as, vines wind round a pole.",
        "To have a circular course or direction; to crook; to bend; to meander; as, to wind in and out among trees.",
        "To go to the one side or the other; to move this way and that; to double on one's course; as, a hare pursued turns and winds.",
        "The act of winding or turning; a turn; a bend; a twist; a winding.",
        "Air naturally in motion with any degree of velocity; a current of air.",
        "Air artificially put in motion by any force or action; as, the wind of a cannon ball; the wind of a bellows.",
        "Breath modulated by the respiratory and vocal organs, or by an instrument.",
        "Power of respiration; breath.",
        "Air or gas generated in the stomach or bowels; flatulence; as, to be troubled with wind.",
        "Air impregnated with an odor or scent.",
        "A direction from which the wind may blow; a point of the compass; especially, one of the cardinal points, which are often called the four winds.",
        "A disease of sheep, in which the intestines are distended with air, or rather affected with a violent inflammation. It occurs immediately after shearing.",
        "Mere breath or talk; empty effort; idle words.",
        "The dotterel.",
        "The region of the pit of the stomach, where a blow may paralyze the diaphragm and cause temporary loss of breath or other injury; the mark.",
        "To expose to the wind; to winnow; to ventilate.",
        "To perceive or follow by the scent; to scent; to nose; as, the hounds winded the game.",
        "To drive hard, or force to violent exertion, as a horse, so as to render scant of wind; to put out of breath.",
        "To rest, as a horse, in order to allow the breath to be recovered; to breathe.",
        "To blow; to sound by blowing; esp., to sound with prolonged and mutually involved notes."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Whether to wind The woodbine round this arbor.",
        "Sleep, and I will wind thee in arms.",
        "In his terms so he would him wind.",
        "Gifts blind the wise, and bribes do please And wind all other witnesses.",
        "Were our legislature vested in the prince, he might wind and turn our constitution at his pleasure.",
        "You have contrived . . . to wind Yourself into a power tyrannical.",
        "Little arts and dexterities they have to wind in such things into discourse.",
        "So swift your judgments turn and wind.",
        "And where the valley winded out below, The murmuring main was heard, and scarcely heard, to flow.",
        "He therefore turned him to the steep and rocky path which . . . winded through the thickets of wild boxwood and other low aromatic shrubs.",
        "The lowing herd wind Gray. [1913 Webster]",
        "To wind out, to extricate one's self; to escape. Long struggling underneath are they could wind Out of such prison.",
        "Except wind stands as never it stood, It is an ill wind that turns none to good.",
        "Winds were soft, and woods were green.",
        "Their instruments were various in their kind, Some for the bow, and some for breathing wind.",
        "If my wind were but long enough to say my prayers, I would repent.",
        "A pack of dogfish had him in the wind.",
        "Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain.",
        "Nor think thou with wind Of airy threats to awe.",
        "Ye vigorous swains, while youth ferments your blood, . . . Wind the shrill horn.",
        "That blast was winded by the king."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. winden, AS. windan; akin to OS. windan, D. & G. winden, OHG. wintan, Icel. & Sw. vinda, Dan. vinde, Goth. windan (in comp.). Cf. Wander, Wend.]"
}