{
    "word": "Wing",
    "definitions": [
        "One of the two anterior limbs of a bird, pterodactyl, or bat. They correspond to the arms of man, and are usually modified for flight, but in the case of a few species of birds, as the ostrich, auk, etc., the wings are used only as an assistance in running or swimming.",
        "Any similar member or instrument used for the purpose of flying.",
        "One of the two pairs of upper thoracic appendages of most hexapod insects. They are broad, fanlike organs formed of a double membrane and strengthened by chitinous veins or nervures.",
        "One of the large pectoral fins of the flying fishes.",
        "Passage by flying; flight; as, to take wing.",
        "Motive or instrument of flight; means of flight or of rapid motion.",
        "Anything which agitates the air as a wing does, or which is put in winglike motion by the action of the air, as a fan or vane for winnowing grain, the vane or sail of a windmill, etc.",
        "An ornament worn on the shoulder; a small epaulet or shoulder knot.",
        "Any appendage resembling the wing of a bird or insect in shape or appearance.",
        "One of the broad, thin, anterior lobes of the foot of a pteropod, used as an organ in swimming.",
        "Any membranaceous expansion, as that along the sides of certain stems, or of a fruit of the kind called samara.",
        "Either of the two side petals of a papilionaceous flower.",
        "One of two corresponding appendages attached; a sidepiece.",
        "A side building, less than the main edifice; as, one of the wings of a palace.",
        "The longer side of crownworks, etc., connecting them with the main work.",
        "A side shoot of a tree or plant; a branch growing up by the side of another.",
        "The right or left division of an army, regiment, etc.",
        "That part of the hold or orlop of a vessel which is nearest the sides. In a fleet, one of the extremities when the ships are drawn up in line, or when forming the two sides of a triangle.",
        "One of the sides of the stags in a theater.",
        "Any surface used primarily for supporting a flying machine in flight, especially the flat or slightly curved planes on a heavier-than-air aircraft which provide most of the lift. In fixed-wing aircraft there are usually two main wings fixed on opposite sides of the fuselage. Smaller wings are typically placed near the tail primarily for stabilization, but may be absent in certain kinds of aircraft. Helicopters usually have no fixed wings, the lift being supplied by the rotating blade.",
        "One of two factions within an organization, as a political party, which are opposed to each other; as, right wing or left wing.",
        "An administrative division of the air force or of a naval air group, consisting of a certain number of airplanes and the personnel associated with them.",
        "To furnish with wings; to enable to fly, or to move with celerity.",
        "To supply with wings or sidepieces.",
        "To transport by flight; to cause to fly.",
        "To move through in flight; to fly through.",
        "To cut off the wings of or to wound in the wing; to disable a wing of; as, to wing a bird; also, [fig.] to wound the arm of a person."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "As an eagle stirreth up her nest, fluttereth over her young, spreadeth abroad her wings, taketh them, beareth them on her wings.",
        "Light thickens; and the crow Makes wing to the rooky wood.",
        "Fiery expedition be my wing.",
        "Who heaves old ocean, and whowings the storms.",
        "Living, to wing with mirth the weary hours.",
        "The main battle, whose puissance on either side Shall be well winged with our chiefest horse.",
        "I, an old turtle, Will wing me to some withered bough.",
        "There's not an arrow wings the sky But fancy turns its point to him."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. winge, wenge; probably of Scand. origin; cf. Dan. & Sw. vinge, Icel. v.]"
}