{
    "word": "With",
    "definitions": [
        "See Withe.",
        "With denotes or expresses some situation or relation of nearness, proximity, association, connection, or the like.",
        "To denote a close or direct relation of opposition or hostility; -- equivalent to against.",
        "To denote association in respect of situation or environment; hence, among; in the company of.",
        "To denote a connection of friendship, support, alliance, assistance, countenance, etc.; hence, on the side of.",
        "To denote the accomplishment of cause, means, instrument, etc; -- sometimes equivalent to by.",
        "To denote association in thought, as for comparison or contrast.",
        "To denote simultaneous happening, or immediate succession or consequence.",
        "To denote having as a possession or an appendage; as, the firmament with its stars; a bride with a large fortune."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Thy servant will . . . fight with this Philistine.",
        "I will buy with you, talk with you, walk with you, and so following; but I will not eat with you, drink with you, nor pray with you.",
        "Pity your own, or pity our estate, Nor twist our fortunes with your sinking fate.",
        "See where on earth the flowery glories lie; With her they flourished, and with her they die.",
        "There is no living with thee nor without thee.",
        "Such arguments had invincible force with those pagan philosophers.",
        "Fear not, for I am with thee, and will bless thee.",
        "That with these fowls I be all to-rent.",
        "Thou wilt be like a lover presently, And tire the hearer with a book of words.",
        "[He] entertained a coffeehouse with the following narrative.",
        "With receiving your friends within and amusing them without, you lead a good, pleasant, bustling life of it.",
        "Can blazing carbuncles with her compare.",
        "With that she told me . . . that she would hide no truth from me.",
        "With her they flourished, and with her they die.",
        "With this he pointed to his face."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. with, AS. wi with, against; akin to AS. wi against, OFries. with, OS. wi, wi, D. weder, we (in comp.), G. wider against, wieder gain, OHG. widar again, against, Icel. vi against, with, by, at, Sw. vid at, by, Dan. ved, Goth. wipra against, Skr. vi asunder. Cf. Withdraw, Withers, Withstand.]"
}