{
    "word": "Witness",
    "definitions": [
        "Attestation of a fact or an event; testimony.",
        "That which furnishes evidence or proof.",
        "One who is cognizant; a person who beholds, or otherwise has personal knowledge of, anything; as, an eyewitness; an earwitness.",
        "One who testifies in a cause, or gives evidence before a judicial tribunal; as, the witness in court agreed in all essential facts.",
        "One who sees the execution of an instrument, and subscribes it for the purpose of confirming its authenticity by his testimony; one who witnesses a will, a deed, a marriage, or the like.",
        "To see or know by personal presence; to have direct cognizance of.",
        "To give testimony to; to testify to; to attest.",
        "To see the execution of, as an instrument, and subscribe it for the purpose of establishing its authenticity; as, to witness a bond or a deed.",
        "To bear testimony; to give evidence; to testify."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "May we with . . . the witness of a good conscience, pursue him with any further revenge?",
        "If I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true.",
        "Laban said to Jacob, . . . This heap be witness, and this pillar be witness.",
        "Upon my looking round, I was witness to appearances which filled me with melancholy and regret.",
        "This, I confess, is haste with a witness.",
        "This is but a faint sketch of the incalculable calamities and horrors we must expect, should we ever witness the triumphs of modern infidelity.",
        "General Washington did not live to witness the restoration of peace.",
        "Behold how many things they witness against thee.",
        "The men of Belial witnessed against him.",
        "The witnessing of the truth was then so generally attended with this event [martyrdom] that martyrdom now signifies not only to witness, but to witness to death."
    ],
    "etymology": "[AS. witness, gewitnes, from witan to know. Wit, v. i.]"
}