{
    "word": "Work",
    "definitions": [
        "Exertion of strength or faculties; physical or intellectual effort directed to an end; industrial activity; toil; employment; sometimes, specifically, physical labor.",
        "The matter on which one is at work; that upon which one spends labor; material for working upon; subject of exertion; the thing occupying one; business; duty; as, to take up one's work; to drop one's work.",
        "That which is produced as the result of labor; anything accomplished by exertion or toil; product; performance; fabric; manufacture; in a more general sense, act, deed, service, effect, result, achievement, feat.",
        "Specifically: (a) That which is produced by mental labor; a composition; a book; as, a work, or the works, of Addison. (b) Flowers, figures, or the like, wrought with the needle; embroidery.",
        "Structures in civil, military, or naval engineering, as docks, bridges, embankments, trenches, fortifications, and the like; also, the structures and grounds of a manufacturing establishment; as, iron works; locomotive works; gas works.",
        "The moving parts of a mechanism; as, the works of a watch.",
        "Manner of working; management; treatment; as, unskillful work spoiled the effect.",
        "The causing of motion against a resisting force. The amount of work is proportioned to, and is measured by, the product of the force into the amount of motion along the direction of the force. See Conservation of energy, under Conservation, Unit of work, under Unit, also Foot pound, Horse power, Poundal, and Erg.",
        "Ore before it is dressed.",
        "Performance of moral duties; righteous conduct.",
        "Break; twist.",
        "The causing of motion against a resisting force, measured by the product of the force into the component of the motion resolved along the direction of the force.",
        "Ore before it is dressed.",
        "To exert one's self for a purpose; to put forth effort for the attainment of an object; to labor; to be engaged in the performance of a task, a duty, or the like.",
        "Hence, in a general sense, to operate; to act; to perform; as, a machine works well.",
        "Hence, figuratively, to be effective; to have effect or influence; to conduce.",
        "To carry on business; to be engaged or employed customarily; to perform the part of a laborer; to labor; to toil.",
        "To be in a state of severe exertion, or as if in such a state; to be tossed or agitated; to move heavily; to strain; to labor; as, a ship works in a heavy sea.",
        "To make one's way slowly and with difficulty; to move or penetrate laboriously; to proceed with effort; -- with a following preposition, as down, out, into, up, through, and the like; as, scheme works out by degrees; to work into the earth.",
        "To ferment, as a liquid.",
        "To act or operate on the stomach and bowels, as a cathartic.",
        "To produce or form by labor; to bring forth by exertion or toil; to accomplish; to originate; to effect; as, to work wood or iron into a form desired, or into a utensil; to work cotton or wool into cloth.",
        "To produce by slow degrees, or as if laboriously; to bring gradually into any state by action or motion.",
        "To influence by acting upon; to prevail upon; to manage; to lead.",
        "To form with a needle and thread or yarn; especially, to embroider; as, to work muslin.",
        "To set in motion or action; to direct the action of; to keep at work; to govern; to manage; as, to work a machine.",
        "To cause to ferment, as liquor."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Man hath his daily work of body or mind Appointed.",
        "Come on, Nerissa; I have work in hand That you yet know not of.",
        "In every work that he began . . . he did it with all his heart, and prospered.",
        "To leave no rubs or blotches in the work.",
        "The work some praise, And some the architect.",
        "Fancy . . . Wild work produces oft, and most in dreams.",
        "The composition or dissolution of mixed bodies . . . is the chief work of elements.",
        "I am glad I have found this napkin; . . . I'll have the work ta'en out, And give 't Iago.",
        "Energy is the capacity of doing work . . . Work is the transference of energy from one system to another.",
        "He shall reward every man according to his works.",
        "Faith, if it hath not works, is dead.",
        "Energy is the capacity of doing work. . . . Work is the transference of energy from one system to another.",
        "O thou good Kent, how shall I live and work, To match thy goodness?",
        "Go therefore now, and work; for there shall no straw be given you.",
        "Whether we work or play, or sleep or wake, Our life doth pass.",
        "We bend to that the working of the heart.",
        "We know that all things work together for good to them that love God.",
        "This so wrought upon the child, that afterwards he desired to be taught.",
        "She marveled how she could ever have been wrought upon to marry him.",
        "They that work in fine flax . . . shall be confounded.",
        "Confused with working sands and rolling waves.",
        "Till body up to spirit work, in bounds Proportioned to each kind.",
        "The working of beer when the barm is put in.",
        "Purges . . . work best, that is, cause the blood so to do, . . . in warm weather or in a warm room.",
        "He could have told them of two or three gold mines, and a silver mine, and given the reason why they forbare to work them at that time.",
        "Each herb he knew, that works or good or ill.",
        "So the pure, limpid stream, when foul with stains Of rushing torrents and descending rains, Works itself clear, and as it runs, refines, Till by degrees the floating mirror shines.",
        "Knowledge in building and working ships.",
        "Now, Marcus, thy virtue's the proof; Put forth thy utmost strength, work every nerve.",
        "The mariners all 'gan work the ropes, Where they were wont to do.",
        "Tears of joy for your returning spilt, Work out and expiate our former guilt.",
        "The sun, that rolls his chariot o'er their heads, Works up more fire and color in their cheeks."
    ],
    "etymology": null
}