{
    "word": "Worm",
    "definitions": [
        "A creeping or a crawling animal of any kind or size, as a serpent, caterpillar, snail, or the like.",
        "Any small creeping animal or reptile, either entirely without feet, or with very short ones, including a great variety of animals; as, an earthworm; the blindworm.",
        "Any helminth; an entozoon.",
        "Any annelid.",
        "An insect larva.",
        "Same as Vermes.",
        "An internal tormentor; something that gnaws or afflicts one's mind with remorse.",
        "A being debased and despised.",
        "Anything spiral, vermiculated, or resembling a worm",
        "The thread of a screw.",
        "A spiral instrument or screw, often like a double corkscrew, used for drawing balls from firearms.",
        "A certain muscular band in the tongue of some animals, as the dog; the lytta. See Lytta.",
        "The condensing tube of a still, often curved and wound to economize space. See Illust. of Still.",
        "A short revolving screw, the threads of which drive, or are driven by, a worm wheel by gearing into its teeth or cogs. See Illust. of Worm gearing, below.",
        "To work slowly, gradually, and secretly.",
        "To effect, remove, drive, draw, or the like, by slow and secret means; -- often followed by out.",
        "To clean by means of a worm; to draw a wad or cartridge from, as a firearm. See Worm, n. 5 (b).",
        "To cut the worm, or lytta, from under the tongue of, as a dog, for the purpose of checking a disposition to gnaw. The operation was formerly supposed to guard against canine madness.",
        "To wind rope, yarn, or other material, spirally round, between the strands of, as a cable; to wind with spun yarn, as a small rope."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "There came a viper out of the heat, and leapt on his hand. When the men of the country saw the worm hang on his hand, they said, This man must needs be a murderer.",
        "'T is slander, Whose edge is sharper than the sword, whose tongue Outvenoms all the worms of Nile.",
        "When Cerberus perceived us, the great worm, His mouth he opened and displayed his tusks.",
        "The worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul!",
        "I am a worm, and no man.",
        "The threads of screws, when bigger than can be made in screw plates, are called worms.",
        "When debates and fretting jealousy Did worm and work within you more and more, Your color faded.",
        "They find themselves wormed out of all power.",
        "They . . . wormed things out of me that I had no desire to tell.",
        "The men assisted the laird in his sporting parties, wormed his dogs, and cut the ears of his terrier puppies.",
        "Ropes . . . are generally wormed before they are served."
    ],
    "etymology": null
}