{
    "word": "Worship",
    "definitions": [
        "Excellence of character; dignity; worth; worthiness.",
        "Honor; respect; civil deference.",
        "Hence, a title of honor, used in addresses to certain magistrates and others of rank or station.",
        "The act of paying divine honors to the Supreme Being; religious reverence and homage; adoration, or acts of reverence, paid to God, or a being viewed as God.",
        "Obsequious or submissive respect; extravagant admiration; adoration.",
        "An object of worship.",
        "To respect; to honor; to treat with civil reverence.",
        "To pay divine honors to; to reverence with supreme respect and veneration; to perform religious exercises in honor of; to adore; to venerate.",
        "To honor with extravagant love and extreme submission, as a lover; to adore; to idolize.",
        "To perform acts of homage or adoration; esp., to perform religious service."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "A man of worship and honour.",
        "Elfin, born of noble state, And muckle worship in his native land.",
        "Of which great worth and worship may be won.",
        "Then shalt thou have worship in the presence of them that sit at meat with thee.",
        "My father desires your worships' company.",
        "The worship of God is an eminent part of religion, and prayer is a chief part of religious worship.",
        "'T is your inky brows, your black silk hair, Your bugle eyeballs, nor your cheek of cream, That can my spirits to your worship.",
        "In attitude and aspect formed to be At once the artist's worship and despair.",
        "Our grave . . . shall have a tongueless mouth, Not worshiped with a waxen epitaph.",
        "This holy image that is man God worshipeth.",
        "But God is to be worshiped.",
        "When all our fathers worshiped stocks and stones.",
        "With bended knees I daily worship her.",
        "Our fathers worshiped in this mountain; and ye say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship.",
        "Was it for this I have loved . . . and worshiped in silence?"
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. worshipe, wur, AS. weor; weor worth + -scipe -ship. See Worth, a., and -ship.]"
}