{
    "word": "Wreck",
    "definitions": [
        "See 2d & 3d Wreak.",
        "The destruction or injury of a vessel by being cast on shore, or on rocks, or by being disabled or sunk by the force of winds or waves; shipwreck.",
        "Destruction or injury of anything, especially by violence; ruin; as, the wreck of a railroad train.",
        "The ruins of a ship stranded; a ship dashed against rocks or land, and broken, or otherwise rendered useless, by violence and fracture; as, they burned the wreck.",
        "The remain of anything ruined or fatally injured.",
        "Goods, etc., which, after a shipwreck, are cast upon the land by the sea.",
        "To destroy, disable, or seriously damage, as a vessel, by driving it against the shore or on rocks, by causing it to become unseaworthy, to founder, or the like; to shipwreck.",
        "To bring wreck or ruin upon by any kind of violence; to destroy, as a railroad train.",
        "To involve in a wreck; hence, to cause to suffer ruin; to balk of success, and bring disaster on.",
        "To suffer wreck or ruin.",
        "To work upon a wreck, as in saving property or lives, or in plundering."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "Hard and obstinate As is a rock amidst the raging floods, 'Gainst which a ship, of succor desolate, Doth suffer wreck, both of herself and goods.",
        "The wreck of matter and the crush of worlds.",
        "Its intellectual life was thus able to go on amidst the wreck of its political life.",
        "To the fair haven of my native home, The wreck of what I was, fatigued I come.",
        "Supposing that they saw the king's ship wrecked.",
        "Weak and envied, if they should conspire, They wreck themselves."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. wrak, AS. wr exile, persecution, misery, from wrecan to drive out, punish; akin to D. wrak, adj., damaged, brittle, n., a wreck, wraken to reject, throw off, Icel. rek a thing drifted ashore, Sw. vrak refuse, a wreck, Dan. vrag. See Wreak, v. t., and cf. Wrack a marine plant.]"
}