{
    "word": "Wrong",
    "definitions": [
        "imp. of Wring. Wrung.",
        "Twisted; wry; as, a wrong nose.",
        "Not according to the laws of good morals, whether divine or human; not suitable to the highest and best end; not morally right; deviating from rectitude or duty; not just or equitable; not true; not legal; as, a wrong practice; wrong ideas; wrong inclinations and desires.",
        "Not fit or suitable to an end or object; not appropriate for an intended use; not according to rule; unsuitable; improper; incorrect; as, to hold a book with the wrong end uppermost; to take the wrong way.",
        "Not according to truth; not conforming to fact or intent; not right; mistaken; erroneous; as, a wrong statement.",
        "Designed to be worn or placed inward; as, the wrong side of a garment or of a piece of cloth.",
        "In a wrong manner; not rightly; amiss; morally ill; erroneously; wrongly.",
        "That which is not right.",
        "Nonconformity or disobedience to lawful authority, divine or human; deviation from duty; -- the opposite of moral right.",
        "Deviation or departure from truth or fact; state of falsity; error; as, to be in the wrong.",
        "Whatever deviates from moral rectitude; usually, an act that involves evil consequences, as one which inflicts injury on a person; any injury done to, or received from; another; a trespass; a violation of right.",
        "To treat with injustice; to deprive of some right, or to withhold some act of justice from; to do undeserved harm to; to deal unjustly with; to injure.",
        "To impute evil to unjustly; as, if you suppose me capable of a base act, you wrong me."
    ],
    "examples": [
        "I have deceived you both; I have directed you to wrong places.",
        "Ten censure wrong for one that writes amiss.",
        "When I had wrong and she the right.",
        "One spake much of right and wrong.",
        "Friend, I do thee no wrong.",
        "As the king of England can do no wrong, so neither can he do right but in his courts and by his courts.",
        "The obligation to redress a wrong is at least as binding as that of paying a debt.",
        "He that sinneth . . . wrongeth his own soul.",
        "I rather choose To wrong the dead, to wrong myself and you, Than I will wrong such honorable men."
    ],
    "etymology": "[OE. wrong, wrang, a. & n., AS. wrang, n.; originally, awry, wrung, fr. wringan to wring; akin to D. wrang bitter, Dan. vrang wrong, Sw. vr, Icel. rangr awry, wrong. See Wring.]"
}